"much obliged,How are you DARRLLLING we simply must see each other sometime in the holidays, if <name> has a party and we're not invited,lets Crash that shit yoooooWhat you been uptolatelyYours sincerelyLiam Power A.K.A Dr. Love,Stop trying to sell me stuff!,I love you too,Hey man, its Liam from friday night,Last night was sketchy.. but are you from My Disco?,Oh, right. <name> has a lot to answer for haha.  Not really fussed, pretty wild introduction I guess. Usually take people to dinner first. Good gig though.,Hey <name> sorry if I forgot to RSVP sooner but I have every intention of attending your shindig tomorrow night. Hope all preparations go smoothly etc. and I will see you tomorrow night, preferably in cocktail attire. Liam.,Urh, sorry, I'm busy friday, xmas shopping with the folks, tell me when you aint working or doing anything and in the next week we will get coffee. Liam,we hit the town, I'm outta dough though so I dunno if I can go-go, might have to make it a quiet one at mine? with movies? and wine? Something liek that, call me whenya get off at 7 and I'll letya know know.Liam,and I answer, gotta stamp out a thousand words by tomorrow. After that I'm free as possible.,Bastard.,I can't I relapsed like a son of a bitch today, fever, vomit, cough, mucus. The whole kit and caboodle. Then I remembered you dont have a phone. How inconvenient for us. Fuck. Won't be coming today. Fucking shit on a donkey's house.,Well thats what acid house was made for, jsut like has for dub and pills for Glen Miller. So it looks cool, I'll cast my net around for some tabolas. You can too if you like. Shared knowledge + connections should yield results into the next financial quarter with increased annual dividends affecting the shareholders.,*hash,How bout we go visit some of those drains you're always banging onabout. Should be some sun next week.,aw geez man too much to say,hows about your ass?,alright alright, whatchu been doin?,<name>, what a blast from the past,hows she doin?,har har, he better put a ring on it soon,she always reminded me of a mermaid though,all watery and whatnot,like an inhabitant of atlantis,yeah, I dunno, she just seemed a little diluted,so you're back from the wilderness or whatever,hows that shit runnin?,fuck my ass and call my mother,hey dicknibbler,wassappenin cappatin?,just doing a 3000 word essay at the monash caulfield library,I am around 200 words in,it is killing me and I need air,but I must go on and resist the pain of study,I got four dollars in the bank account, but I wouldnt mind letting off some steam tongith, as I am presssurized.,Strict bike riding and wine drinking though,No fancy stuff,No dirty dancing or anything,Alrighty jones,SURE!,Hey there partner, was wonderingif you wanted to to go for a ride up to warbuton through the yarra ranges at some point this week. Could possible camp/bring  something if it is warm. Meant to be pretty up there, and all we need is a ticket to lilydale.,oh yeah, I'm alright now, but ya know, was in holspital for a while and shit,fuck yeah, the greastest painkiller of all,hey j boy,whats a happenin pardner,Hey there matey, whats the goappenin? Hows life an whatnot, what the fuck is happening in 2012? How the fuck did it become 2012? what have you been doing pilgrim? Dancing round in the light of your cherished youth?  Don't forget ol Liam out here in the middle of nowhere. Did you know I was in hospital? I was thinking about old Russy boy, and how we never see each other. I mean, shit, I see people I hate everyday, just for the sake of convenience. Convenience can die in the middle of a shit pile. I mean, in our world of instant communication we never communicate. Don't you think thats fucked up? Butin any case you are an important aspect of ol Liam boy's life, even though I don't know how much meaning that holds. What have you been doing? How ya been feeling? Whats your favourite colour?,damn right kdi,you gunan bop along?,SHIT YEAH BRIMG YOUR FRIENDS,CARLTON, VICTORIA BITTER AND BECKS,actually, bring som eeuropean friend,0434646023,Hey brother I dunno if you check this shit that often but I lost my phone and have no way to contact you and I wanted to maybe drink some wine and talk about footscray, getting the dole this week hopefully and want to get the fuck out of this house which is killing me slowly with its iron rule of unspeakable horror. Well it aint that bad but ya know, I wouldnt mind getting somewhere other than here, or outta my head for a bit, wanna go camping or something soon?anyway, gimme a call at home during the day if you want 95327870, I am going to drink two bottles of wine and forget about all of this.,howdy manny,whats crappenin?,cool buttons, not up to much tonight I dont think due to having this fucking cold,I dunno, gotta be pretty low impact, I feel like somebody got one of those cake icers, stuck it in my ear and filled my head up with snot.,Wine and ciggarettes have been doing wonders,yupsy,DOO,yeah, well its jsut demo shit,trying not to use up tape so its on the lowest speed,possible,like 1 cm per minute,yep,I guess its sort of a headphone song,it is wavved,its just off a tpe player,har har,tape,today,synthed it up,  got like 4 strings on my guitar and none of my proper recording equiment is working, and I got a cold,so I guess it turned out as well as it could've,ah, I'll re do it when I get all my shit back and working,its about ya know, people splitting in two and destroying part of themselves for an end, like destroying part of themselves to get a job,or to get influence over someone,what type of carpeting do you have?,man, I'm trying to concentrate on laying down some bass tracks and you are showing my HOLE!,*ME,yeah, such as birth,hug life,so hows your dole going?,or have you scrapped that,yeah, I got tweo to go,where did you elect, prarhan?,I'm doing oakleigh,I can ride the bike there ata pinch,yeah, I think I read it twice,whos that greasy fucking guy, the one that does all the coke?,yah,he's so GREASY,its fantastic,oh fuck yeah, I love that one,can paint shit out of shit,I know, shit fuck,first dole check?Speaking of the dole, waddya thinking footscray wise?,yup yupwell, we should try and get someone with a rental record to get a 3 bedroom, or get someone to give us a reference who owns property or someting,yeah, well I dunno, we shoudl dicuss it with  <name> at some point, see if he'll go in with us, but yeah, I dunno, I don't have anyone with a proper rental record to go on the lease, other than my grandparents, and they don't approve of me moving out on the dole,yeah, well they don't approve of anything, except prunes and a lack of any flavour or spice,and hermitism,  the old weatherboards, thats where its at,so do I,plus, bringing girls back to a place called droop street is asking for whisky dick,the synth, yeah, I didn't want it to be too load,loud,just kinda, melted in,fuckin sample it then,har har, you are the only one,I'm pretty sure that dude is black,or at least puerto rican,JAYDUN,JDS!,hey man, whats going on, hows shit going? hows life on the dole treating you?,har ahr, yeah,I'd vote for ya,just lop off the last name,liek madonna,I bet she could run for president,writing songs, going into the wilderness, drinkign cheap wine, trying to get the dole sorted out, ballin babes, wrestlin, chopping wood, driving down highways, having lucid dreams, eating salmon.,read what?,exotic,you cant make money from writing, it only costs money,I fucking hate moneyI need money,I fucking hate money,man your blog is filled with cunt,I met a woman on the train, she had eyes with big chinks in them. It was dark and cold outside but warm on the train, I spread out and tried to get some sleep. When I woke up she was still watching me. We were two stops from my station, and she mumbled something like "You look very tired". I nodded to her then looked out the window til my stop came along. Walked off, went up to the tram stop and sat down. After about five minutes sitting there I looked up and saw her there, looking forlorn in the orange streetlight. She had a car and offered me a lift home, she was going my way. "Sure" I said, and hopped in with her. As we belted up we made small talk "I go to uni, you own a aromatherapy business" that kind of thing. She mentioned philosophy, and we started talking about some crap like determinism. I yawned. Then she started telling me about the philosophy books she had written and posted on the internet. They were about love and wealth and it was obvious she had much faith in them. I looked interested, she started talking about her philosophy of money, of visualising etc etc making your wealth grow with positive reinforcement yada yada. We pulled up about a block down from my place. "this is it, thanks for the ride" I said, she nodded and looked into my eyes for a long time, even though her face was withered she had beautiful eyes. She looked at me and said, "You are a very beautiful boy". I looked at her and said "I know." Then she reached over and shook my hand, she moved her hadn down and put it on my crotch. She started moving, it, while whisp<Name>g "You are a beautiful boy. I was excited, very excited. I had a hard-on. She reached into my pants and took out my cock, looking at it and saying "beautiful, beautiful." Then she went down and started sucking. She knew what she was doing, she swirled her tongue around the head, she grabbed my balls with her hand, she lightly tickled my shaft. I was looking at her head moving and feeling her hot breath on my pelvis. I reached over and grabbed her big, floppy breasts. She had no bra on and they felt good and soft and slightly stringy, like dough after a long rise. I could feel her nipples harden somewhere down near her belly button, she kept sucking. I looked at the dashboard, the console, the streetlights, her back, her hands maneuv<Name>g. For a moment there was nothing wrong, there was a great cohesion to the world, everything was connected by tiny strings. Then it was over and she retched as she swallowed and I zipped and jumped out of the car and walked around the block to the back of my house, slipping on the wet ground. Below is an excerpt from her book "Wealth" published online.PAINNo pain, no win.No pain, no dream.No pain, no desire.No pain, no truth.No pain, no experience.No pain, no lesson.No pain, no wisdom.No pain, no money.No pain, no children.No pain, no belief.No pain, no love.No pain, no spirit.No pain, no learning.No pain, no result.No pain, no fitness.No pain, no wealth.No pain, no balance.No pain, no grow.No pain, no understand.No pain, no ability.No pain, no truth.,theres one of mine,based on a true story,quite true, didn't finish though.,most people would find it embarassing, she was pretty fucking old.,thats what I thought,her books were fucking trippy as hell. All about her son and providing wealth for ther family,she had a son older than me,har har, I still god the book around, HOW TO START FOCUSING MONEY FROM POVERTYYOU CAN ONLY START TO PLANT THE \u2018MONEY' SEED IN THE MIND FIRSTIF YOU DO NOT HAVE ANY MONEY OR RICH DAD, HOW COULD YOU INVEST MONEY IN ANY FORMS? (PROPERTY, SHARES AND MANAGED FUNDS)YOU CAN NEVER FOLLOW ANOTHER'S FOOT STEPS BECAUSE YOU DON'T HAVE HIS PARENTS, THOUGHT, THINKING PATTERN, BACKGROUND, SOCIAL AND EDUCATIONAL LEVELS, OPPROTUNITIES, SUPPORT, PARTNER, FAITH, BELIEF AND COURAGE. YOU CAN ONLY SEARCH YOUR OWN MIND AND CREATE YOUR OWN WAY TO WIN THE BATTLE OF LIFE.LIFE IS ALL ABOUT MATERIAL AND SPIRITUAL WEALTH AND BALANCES. YOU MUST FIGHT TO BE THE WINNER!,I kno,w she was a shameless capitalist, but some of heer shit is kinda inspired,<email>,common sense determines that we have no fucking idea anyway,har har,what am I, your goddamn SON,the problem is holding your conentration on learning the art of concentration,have you read any castaneda?,I oughta give you this book I jsut read, tachings of <Name>juan, gooooooooooood shit,oh, well it isnt the <Name>juan that was banging babes all the time, it is a yaqui indian warrior guy,yah I thought it was fucked, its so godadmn strange, seem slike she was into eastern shit when she was younger, then she got a family and had to provide for them and so got into money real heavy,caught in some fucked poor cycle for ages,she had a pretty good car though,one of those mazda 3's,har har,if ya wann acome round later or something we could actually go down the beach, I got a cask of wine I gotta drink before it turns to vinegar,well cooL!,really?,golly,I have been drinkign constantly since 2008,and it hasnt done me any HARM,get it,hello my dear,I was reading robinson crusoe,HAR HAR,I got my first dole cheque today,HAR HAR,wanna get some beers or something?,HAR HAR,Fuckin prick! What happened to hobart? Reckon I'll go to the bart anyway MATE, have fun visiting the many local attractions of bright, such as the public toilets near the station, the milk bar and all of the lovely wineries.,sunday m'man,packin up,what you doing tonight?,nicey doo, might have enough cash to go halves in a cash don't know what you are doing tonight?,whoops, I do know,no doubt,might do some recording today whilst I can, if ya wanna coem play traingle,CRAYzay,did ya hear the new track I put up?,AHH, did you see the microscopic hookworm picture,that could be in your ass,not always the most sterile environment,fuck yes, I need books to read,nope, just outta credit,I know, its a cunt and a half,post a status?,Return ticket to Ballan on the V/Line Ballarat service is $7.90, They leave every hour from Southern Cross and we can bring bikes on the off peak services for no extra charge. Then when we get to Ballan we do this ride "   to get into the state forest. Apparently the ride is about an hour, and it only takes an hour on the train to get there. Its a free campsite in the Wombat state forest near the start of the Werribee river. I guess we can enter the directions into our phones and then turn them off for the trip so they dont run outta battery. Probably need one tent, a pot and some lighters/matches. Couple of cans of beans. Whatever else we can carry easily in backpacks.We can leave anytime we want and come back anytime cause we can buy tickets from the station and the trains come like every hour on the Ballarat service.  Whaddya think?,if we take a trowel we can dig a ditch round our tents and fire and that usually keeps he water from running into it, then we can put up a tarp b/w two trees or something and sit under there. I reckon 2 tarps and our tents.,I can get my guitar and strap it to my back.,Without a doubt there is no actual height, width or volume, simple parlour tricks from the illusory perspective of self-organising thought.,Good,You inspired me to get off my ass and do something too.,Sometimes I think of my soul as a glass of water floating in the ocean. It exhibits the water around it clearly through the weathered glass. Then it hits an island in the ocean and a little water spills into it. The glass gets filled, drip by drip. When it is half full it gains inertia, and becomes heavy. Then the momentum dashes it against a rock. The glass shatters and is taken away by the current and the water that was contained in the glass flows out into the ocean, forever lost in the surging mass.,the user. I wrote something really similar to that a couple of years ago and remembered it crystalline.,I know. Shit is getting more and more clarity.,Kinda felt like I had forgotten to think.,anyway, BBQ tomorrow afternoon like 4PM somewhere round brunswick?,Sweet meats, talk to ya later.,Hey milksop. You ain't reading these anyway are ya, meditating somewhere? Have any quasi religious eastern spiritual experiences? Hope yer having a spiffing time anyway brewson, look forward to hearing of yr travel sicknesses. LOL JKS,Yeah, have a feeling most big Asian cities are getting a bit homogenous now. Commercial culture etc. nam was great, uni is shiiiiiiit man you dodged a bullet, been waiting a month for my centrelink to come through an caught the flu a week before all my assignments are due.  Argh!!! Get rural baby.,Just belching out little snippets of song, how goes it. What you been doin babe?,Bullshits. Pete is in his down stage at the moment so were avoiding him at all costs. Every time I've seen him in the last week he's asked me to clean the toilet/paint the walls etc. havent done it though.,Fuck yeah man, how's India? Got a whole VHS camera set up going now so we can make a film or something when you get back. Whereabouts are you now?,Fuckin a man, I'm going through a hugely creative period at the moment which will hopefully still be going by the time you come back.,YAYAYAYAY,I mean, about coming home, no the dread of existance,I dunno, might be. Just lent my mum some cash so I guess that counts.,Hey buddy, heard you were getting home soon. Let's get drunk. Soon.,Holy shot I'll buy you a cask my dear, where ya staying? Free to stay on my couch if ya dig. Lemme know what you're up at. Dig it?,stop trying to get me to check out all the latest news, sport and celeb gossip.,TWO CONVERSATIONS,CON,TWO,listen to gut feeling/slap your mammy 14 times then lets start a band.,no argument. I got the equipment, you got the talent.,recognize me. all I need is a two word adknowledgemnet of my communication.,adknowledgement,Hey, Josh. What's happening?,Yah. Just trying to organise shit at the moment. Not sure what everybody is doing, prob,Ably lying face down in their own filth thinking why repeatedly.,Red phone clearance? Nice. I'm pretty sure you need a electrified cowprod instead.,I've heard coffee enemas work pretty good.,Tell <Name>that  <name> is probably gunna show at like 4 so no big rush.,Thanks bud, how's it going? Enjoying Facebook?,Yeah, talking to hot babes on Facebook is totes da best.,You at school yet?,Well I dunno what the kids are doing nowadays. How's skool?,It's called work and you'll find out about it one day... Shit.,You're in year 7 right? Where the girls are all taller and musclier than the boys? Awkward times.,Just cause I don't type as fast as you.,Wow, your early teens sounds eventful.,Just for study right?,Friend zone is good, gotta bide your time.,BIDE,naw, but ya know, you can't rely on your sheer attractiveness like me so...,Awkward,It never works well. You'll learn that.,At least until your hormones stop raging.,Oh right you guys got a car,I mean catAutocorrect,Shadow,Shut up,Yeah,Cause if they did you probably wouldn't like them anymore?,Cause if they did you probably wouldn't like them anymore?,I'd have to, but I meant that perhaps sometimes you like them cause they don't like you, that's part of the whole thing.,Hey man it's Liam ( <name>'s friend), I heard that you had a couple of pedals that needed repairing. If you could let me know what pedals they are and what you think is wrong with them/when they stopped working I can definitely have a look at them and see what I can do. Price would be dependent on the individual pedals and what parts I have already or would need to order but it would be pretty cheap as I'm just starting out and kinda just wanna get some experience.,Input <name> I can totally fix. Electro harmonic I can have a look at. Fixed a couple of wahs so could definitely do something with those. And switche I can replace no sweat. Lemme know whb you're free and ill come pick em up and let ya know a quote. Probably wont be more than 30-50 bucks per pedal, depends on what you're cool to pay.,Alright well I can come round tomorrow maybe and grab the tremelo and wah,Sure thing man. Ill be home tomorrow. My number is <number> btw.,Hey Paul, how ya doin? Any venues you had in mind/dates? Could possibly help ya put something together. This is us,    "Oh righty, makes more sense.,Who were ya thinking lineup wise? I'm happy to play for sure.,Zombies,Whoops autocorrect,Yeah sound ace,Nothing in particular. Can send bio stuff if that's what ya mean.,Yeah sorry I can't help out guys I got a toddler so not much room!,Yeah saw that just forgot to reply to original post \udbbb\udc2e,Hey mates, just wonderingwhat the backline situation is for tonight? You reckon the Grace darling might have a table for synths and jazz? Been making do with milk crates and not super keen to lug them on the bus. If one of you guys have a keyboard stand/ folding table thing I could use that'd be bonze.,will do,Oooaahhh will investigate that option as well,I'll be gentle I swear,Great! thanks heaps! See you folks tonight then if there aint anything else we gotta discuss. Paul, are you guys sound checking before doors or before you play?,Sounds good to me?,Nope, soz matey,Hey kids, so what's the deal with backline on Thursday night? <name> what are you guys bringing/need? I'm just plugging soundcard into desk and mic into soundcard so pretty easy set up. Also was going to record my set for posterities so if anyone else wants me to record theirs let me know.,Kool kool, yeah pretty sure the pa is pretty basic in The gracement so best to cover yr ass. So I reckon <Name>me and <Name> are mixing ourselves, Me and <Name>can probably sound check you guys before you play Louis.  Getting worksheet today so will let ya know set times as well.,Also <Name> are you bringing projector setup? Was gunna bring a dvd with some visuals for my show.,Coooo will bring along a dvd then! Thanks!,C'mereaminnit,This picture is a metaphor for my life but <Name> is success and contentment,No stress we were gunna message you today to ask! We've ticked ya off!,We miss ya too brookeo! Gunna be a blaster. Me and <name> were rehearsing for our super fun rockabilly bop town wedding show today so all we have left to do is get into shameful amounts of debt buying shit.,Minimal noise pop band Savage nobles were formed in 2014 to fill the gaping holes in the lives of its members. Swaying between noise and pop like a faulty fm radio, their sound echoes the frustrations of inner urban life. Hahahahaha. Ill think of something better whn I get home.,hm not sure. Lemme think,too truthful,minimal noise pop trio savage nobles was formed in melbourne in 2014. Their sound includes upper, lower and mid frequencies. Their influences include oxygen, proteins and the occasional disposal of waste.,I freaking hate band bios,their upcoming debut album "untitled" is to be produced by sweat, frustration and hollandia.,"Outsider Pop" Savage nobles formed in melbourne in early 2014. Their sound is as minimal as they can get away with. Their sound is reminiscent of nighttime walks through cold dark streets. Their songs deal with anonymity, heartache, frustrated lust, and the herd mentatlity.,we shoudl cobine everything,I dunno, I'm having second thoughts about panic womb, its a bit PASSE,then again, so is savage nobles,Flowmaster,Hosepower,Spray Booth,Adelaide Belt and Hose distributors,,General Electric,Sinotech,Sonatrach,Sonatech,Audiclave,audileAn individual having a tendency to form mental images derived from auditory sensations.,SAVE MY NOB,sick as,fjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj,who gives a shit mate its about the MUSIC manan,Hey bud, I got tomorrow and sunday off probably, possible monday for three phase? or sunday night?,Ok cool so ill come round Sunday and book three phase for Monday night then? Can also pop round tomorrow and go thru some shit with denlaps?,Tomorrow, introduce new shit to Denny. Sunday, go over new shit and get the structure down for everything and setlist then Monday practice setlist I reckon.,I'm fine for then man, we can work on some new shit between now and then as well.,Ill have a think,Burst Membrane?,Clenched teeth,Forced sweat,Sugar syrup and the blood blossoms,Matter vacuum,Unfolding shrieks,Magazine sweat,Frayed tapestry,Acids and alkalines,Shiv<Name>g glass,The glass man,Receding light,Hot veins,Thick Air,But gasp, everyone's gloom flowers reached.The thrill in their echo.the instinct screamed.War. no nation.Steam groaned in spaceEveryone has taste.Time exhaledNothing-smell came outBeautiful instinct screamed.war of the light handsOur moral lightThe dark crowd is moral, above decay.Oh! the eye-wand<Name>g taste lit lordsThe space flashed also in their resonance,There's some hot phrases from lyrics,Lit nerve,Is exhale a band already?,I like matter vacuum,And thick air,Matter Vacuum,Dang,Thick exhale,Vacuum Inhale,Glass Vacuum,Decay Space,Glass Womb is good,Blackuna,I really like glass womb,Is it too pretentious though,Too rapey,Forced exhalation,Clenched glass,Oingo Boingo,Inward exhalation,That's more of an album name though,TBC,Folded Glass,Daddy <Name>and the Double Dudes,<Name>Gray and his Graymen,Folded glass, glass womb, matter vacuum, thick exhale?,Is that what were down to?,Glass Fold,Lets wait for <Name>to weigh in.,On Which is best.,I like em all.,Yeah, that's true. Savage nobles works for what were doing now I think, but more electronic shit might require a more obscure band name.,Like Zambesi,Or petrol drunk,Chemical Frustration,Stanley Stilton and the stutt<Name>g sound sailorssss,Wats a Syndic,A synthetic dick?,Squanza, we'll try and pull out the stops and pull in some favours for the 17th show then. As for the 5th, keeping it low key sounds good. We should get the Facebook up and update the soundcloud with some new stuff. And get some events posters and shot and go wild with the pastings. Rehearsal early next week?,yeah, page is up as gys may have noticed,i got internet at home now thank fuck,uploading a live version of treason from the tote too, or was there another song you guys reckon sounded better?,Yeehaw,ok, well i remixed that shit, thought it was pretty brutal version,only problem is the bass is a lil muddy in the recordings, cant seem to find the optimal frequency,fuck yeah, that'd be awesome, we needa get a rehearsal in first id say,yeah might up fetter too i spoe,I just found 50 bucks in an old jacket so i can cover you til later on,probably better to have a room,exactly, and it makes us feel like a REAL band,We're facebook official now,OMG,I just wasnt sure.. but after the second date... i knew they were the one. Those eyes, those toes, those licks, those bros,Those solos, they shredded me to ecstasy,ok, im blasting treason to soundcloud now,btw nick dryden asked us if we could play the evelyn this month cause they got residency,i said maybe but were already playing two shows,and he was like, hm.,I know, how are we ever gunna write more shit,we're not obliged to do this one at all i dont think,plus not super into those guys' music wise, i spose if we get offered 3 gigs in a month we can start being slightly snooty,yeah, and their audience,"OMG, why is that man SCREAMING at me, I'm gunna go nurse my antidepressant addiction and buy some more clothes off the internet",nah not yet,They're pretty cool,kk baby,nighty,oh yeah, hi don,I hate that guy,TLDR in summary: upped treason to soundcloud, created facebook, rehearsal next week, offered gig at evelyn sometime in july: pretty much turned it down. <Name>masturbates to stations.,<Name>s Bestie,They're called yum yum cult, they're not really our style,I know, they're like a freakin car ad,hm... we'll see. I mean its always good to be playing more shows, but whether <Name>wants to cart us round or not.Plus if we're flogging this 17th show maybe we should put our energies into that and play a really good one.,We'd be supporting btw.,yeah, ill try and think of some new songs for next week's rehearsal.,nice,so whats the plan for thursday? Should I try and drop off my stuff to your place before then and then we can load all the shit in, or did ya want to come round and load all the stuff in at my place on the way? Dunno if I'm working thursday night. Gunna bring synths, sequencers, vhs modules, effects, leads, mics guitar and amp.,ill let ya know at like 1 on thursday if I am working or not, if I'm not youa nd <Name>can come round as early as you want and ill load stuff in.,cool, or as soon as <Name>feels up to it. Gunna be stupidly broke. Should bring some spices and crap down and make a giant beggie curry,veggie,otherwise mi goreng,so psyched to record/write new stuff,ahh we'll work it out. I wanna make heaps of music and write songs anyway, so I can probably do some of that on sunday or something in the other room/.,we'll see what happens, people are inherently lazy so i think a lot of poepl ewith the intentions of coming down friday will end up down on saturday,btw <Name> isnt coming, said she cbf,so i'm getting LOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE,I know, seemed a bit pointless,Will do. Peggy sue. Just your stuff or an overall one?,Sweet dreams,I'm gunna bring 1 Mic lead3 Dynamic mics (can bring a condenser too)Guitar/AmpSynth/Sampler Sequencers etc.Power Adapters Daisy chains et.Powerboard(s)Extension CablePedals9V Batts?I reckon you should try and bringAs many mics and leads as possibleMic stands?VolcasBass shitMidi KeysYour Mixer (I can bring mine but only 4 channelsYour InterfaceYour,*Your Monitors or headphones (I can bring mine too)Your LaptopAnything else you think would be neccessary for recording (pedals, outboard stuff if ya have any),I'll let ya know round 12, thats usually when I get offered my shift,by the way htat was all don's shit, I dont know what you wanna bring unless you wanna grab a powerboard and your power amp,+Monotribe,And an ipod or something,yeah cool, We'll see whatll fit. I can live without my synth but it would helpif we wanna do some ambient stuff,anyway, talk to ya tomorrow BRAH,hopefully, unless we can maybe borrow/rent some mic leads from this studio place,anyway, we can discuss tomoz,Hey so I'm not working tonight so anytime you guys wanna come round and load stuff in is fine with me. Electricity is off at our place for some reason so I got no phone battery so Facebook me or call <Name> if ya need.,Alrighty. Tell <Name>if he wants <Name> to bring my stuff to yours in the car that's alright too.,Just wait til ya hear my overproduced shits. Gunna up them tonight. Will export the vocal tracks too and send em to ya don.,   are these baby's sounding? gotta choose which version of membrane kicks it harder than a blind mule. Just realised how futile it is trying to get them sounding as clean as possible and transferring to tape. OWELL!,Ok here ist the working link (hopefully to the rough mixes I've been doing. I aint got no booklernin and fancy sound art type qualifications, but I reckon they sound pretty CLEAN.,I guess laptop speakers are a pretty good approximation of what itll sound like on tape,at least they're macbook speaks,Brushed Aluiminiumy,Aluiminiuimium,What time shoudl I come round tomoz?,like 3?,might upload puffing billy as a teaser track onto soundcloud or something,Ok cool so round 4ish,Good call, and I gotta lug my shit, and itll take longer than I think it will,I'll aim for 3:30s, and we'll try and set up for reherasal as much as poss before you get back,unless ya wanna skip rehearsal tomozza,check under the hood, make sure the.. carburettor is... functioning to standard,and the engine is... rotating efficiently,I've been driving these fuckers into my brain all week, reckon I could play them on a kazooo,yeah, gaddamn, we should practise that first tomorrow, gotta get the timing down for the introo,wonderingwhat I'm gunna break out for the experimental shit at the end, dunno if my synths will fire up after last weekend's debauchery.,I'll figure something out, maybe ill trigger thunder samples with my iphone or something,anyway, bedtimes, seeya tomorrow afternoones,Yeah, next week is probs better for everyone by the sounds of it. It's <Name>'s birthday on tuesday so I dunno what I'll be doing and I have a feeling she might wanna do something with either me or <Name>so I dunno. Lets try and do next week.,I should be working 4 days next week, so ill try and move them round and get a day we're all free.,I was thinking of names for the ep and there's heaps of song names that would work.Burden? Symbolic annihilation? Purge?,Membrane. Totally.,I like Burden. That fits.,Hey brahs we're booked in for 12 midday to 6pm on sunday at tinning street. Both the kits were booked out so we'll needa use our kit. PSYCHED,Blah whatervs. We'll figure out something. They might have a couple of floor toms you can bash around on.,hey bros. Did a provisional mix of lash w/ drum machine, guitar synth and bass guitar. Semi dubby?Have a listen and tell me if it needs anything.\   "Yeah. Just put those in til we track acoustics so disregard them. I can up the track without em if they be distracting.,DISREGARDED,   "We shold spend an afternoon tunin gup your kit,Nah shell out mate.,I dunno man. <Name>'s due tomorrow so we're pretty much waiting round for stuff to happen. I can google drive some recordings you can overdub though?,No stress though. He ain't here yet. He just be due tomorrow so I can probably up some recordings  tomorrow. Probably wot be here for a week or so knowing <Name>.,Hey brahs hows it gahn. I did a new mix of treason from those tracks we cut all those years ago in the otways. I reckon this one's a banger.,   "   "gunna start remixing everything with the fresh fresh ears of fatherhood.,you guys should try and record some drums for lash at some point, then we can put out everything we got on bandcamp or something,jah man,haha, dont worry man, this is the first thing ive dont in months,meh, anytime yer free. I'll send ya the stems or something if ya want. or ya can just play along, i'll probably but a new mix in the next cople of weeks.,*cut,no rush for anything at the moment though, took me a couple of weeks to find the time to do some mixing.,will do, ill zip em up,might have to encode them though, or else itll take forever,how ya doin anyway man?,not really, just vocals, and a bit of automation etc. Moving everything over to ableton at the moment coz im tryna learnt that,haha, synchronized as usual,I got a launchpad for xmas so been doing monome stuff, generative randomness,im into it at the moment,so portable,so funny that we are going through stages at the same time,pretty much the only way I can make tunes while also looking after <Name>. Studio setup is too complicated.,me too,,plus the ableton built in fx are pretty decent,yeah, operator etc,you can do some really interesting stupp with warp and beats,plus I'm kind of into the whole session view workflow, kind of matches my thinking, short loops chained together,holy crap, thats exactly what ive been doing,spooky,using random velocity on drum racks,groove pool swing etc,its the shit,midi fx are the shit,anyway, we should do a luanchpad/push live show sometime next year,we just gotta figure out hwo to sync two computers together,haha,man, itd be so much easier than lugging round all that gear, thats all ive been thinking,just laptop, launchpad, hard drive full of fucked up samples, midi controller,could tour the world with that setup,then again I think its pretty ironic that ive got this whole room full of hardware and I'm not using any of it,been using heaps of loop pedal loops though, synced to live. You should get into monome emulationw hen you get a push. MLR is the shit,I've been using this, for max for live    "oh yeah, did you hear that swans are playing at the corner in jan?,dang, yeah I was gunna go,ill see what dennys up to,Ill see whats up, tickets are like 70 bucks though, was gunna get the night off,probably will, ill see if anyone can go,really good man! gotten well and truly into the swing of things now. Franks just sleeping next to me at the moment,here ya go, lash stems. I just chekced them into ableton,   "do it, come in jan at som epoint when hes a bit older,no wozzbags,ill figure out someone to go with me,yeah man, thought it turned out pretty good, remixing all the old stuff over the holidays when I have time,totally man, I'm just slowly working through these trakcs, I reckon we'll e able to have a jam in feb or something,got heaps of new material though, as does <Name>by the sond of it,totally, thinking about doing some more, just for shits,so fun to do,kind of like the whole concept production thing,like, not neccisarily dub the whole time, but deep bass and reverb and delay and stuff,by the way I sent <Name>all the files for LASh w/o drums if you guys wanna track some drums for that at some point,<Name>it!,kewl, whereboots?,seems to be the way to go at the moment,cool man, you should come round at some point, no pressure though.,do it! lemme know when ya get baclk and we can organise something,yeah sure man, otherwise when ya get back and aint too busy.,hes had all his shots now so visits are fine,Im working on a song called shit on my face and piss in my mouth, its gunna be a love song for <Name>,have a good un bud,thanks,Fo sho baby, I'm down to clown, we'll definitely have our shit together by them,should organise rehearsal soon, prehaps next week sometime? did we work out thursday?,cool cool, we'll wait to hear back from dong <name>,woops: <Name>gay,woops: <Name>gray,strong dong flay,coolio, your place or three phase?,alright, midday to 6 would be better fo rme,man, so dirgey and lead breakey,love it, we should work on this,work out some changes,that and purge,Fo sho, we;ve got like 3 or 4 songs which we needa work on,lets spend to majority of thursday working on new stuff,Hey kids, the login details for bandcamp areuser: savagenobles@gmail.compass: savnobs123,Yep yep ill book this week,Yeah baby, sax!,Gunna shake the foundations matter,Niccccccceee one. Yeah, I'm free then., "Lets do purge at the show for suresies,I'll write up a set list at some point and you guys can tell me what ya think.,Dads y u got to leave me n go play string bag huh?",  "I think its connected to my facebook, I'll take a look,Ok changed it to",  "Yeah, might have to just delete shit and reup coz its chronological. Id say Chuck whatever on there, as long as the first couple are decent recordings.,Also change the name from Liam power obvs,Also we should get our shit together and order those tapes. I'll do some work on the cover art the next couple of days and try and get some high res scans to send them. I should have the cash next week.,Cool, well lets see wasssssuuuup widdat. I'm good for some cash whenever.,You got til next Friday or say goodbye to your beloved pinkies,Looks boss hoss,Nearly there, gotta scan stuff, and get some time to properly lay things out. <Name>'s back at uni this week so been FT parenting again.,Torrenting photoshop, will get something done tonight hopefully,SOZ NSA,SOZ DMCA OR WHATEVS ABBOTT,Yeah, well if life shaper is affiliated with  some sort of charismatic Christian sect  then probably a bit iffy on pumping funds to em.  If there's some guy in a basement im down, but its such a small run anyway that the means of production is probably Pretty insignificant politically. Give those Canadian tape factory workers something to do.,Looks GOOOD,we should get some decent photos taken though at some point,For facebooks and whatnot,lets do it, I want film, he was saying he had a whole pbunch of expired rolls that  <name> gave him, could try something on that,FUCKYES,I torrented photoshop and am now working on the cover, we could print our own or pay the 50 bucks and get them printed,hey set up a payapal so all proceeds from bandcamp go into there, not sure whether you guys wanna link a bank account or whatever, but I linked my old one so itll just be for band shit,Hey man, been to the Blundstone factory yet, what a trip. I reckon the 14th, thats wednesday two weeks from now, so we're fresh from rehearsal for this gig plus with moving and shit things are gunna be pretty hectic for a couple of weeks.,plus melody is gunna take some shots that night of rehearsal,I like the medium room with the books too. Should ask about that one,Aww butts, <Name> is working so I gotta watch <Name> all day so dunno if I can do it. I'll ask around and see if someone else can take him for the day,Oh well I might be able to do next Friday then, I'll ask the future wife and let ya knows,SENT bud,I want white card, like 180gsm I reckon, we could go glossy or matte, whatevs ya think. I'll come with ya on friday morning (Got the day off),I reckon we should test out the fit etc. I'll bring my laptop and we'll get it done,Yeah baby, I gotta pick up my student card anyways,earlier is probs better for me, but whatever you're inta,yeah I hope? dunno if itll be activated by then but yeah, maybe just borrow dons off him then we got our asses covered (wI'll putcredot on it,wow worst typing,sick, bring a couple of tapes coz I want one,yeah ill probs get in round 930,Sweetass,talk to ya then,Too late to book for feb? Later in march would be good.,Lets do it, middle of feb? We could probs get a few dudes to play with us,That sounds alright to me,Who would we get to play?,love it, I'll shoot off some emails to relevant parties,nice one,where are we with the bonus trax btw,fair nuff brah,otherwise its literally just rehearsal recordings, which can get a bit grating for the average listener, and having transitions which aren't just jump cuts of fades makes things a bit more interesting IMO. Seems to me that for a sound art student you are wierdly close minded about that kinda stuff. If its gunna be a whole thing we don't really have to bother about bonus content, I'm happy with the EP and tape and cover art any everything, so lets move on eh?,We have pretty different styles when it comes to production, so I'm not gunna get into an argument with you about aesthetics. Whenever ya get some time, use those golden ears to master em through monitors, make some cuts and do whatever you want with them. Should take ya like 2 hrs. Or find the rehearsal tracks and cut them yourself, they'll never get finished if we get finicky over pointless details, and big picture they don't really matter that much in the scheme of things. Use em, don't use em. I'm sure the 4 people who listen to them won't get the the 29 minute mark where the delay effect comes in. I'm inclined to just leave the tracks the way they are on bandcamp and be done with it.,Dunno bout that sharp cut at the end of the intro, but aprt from that everything sounds pretty good.,Oh right,I think I mixed that down wrong, I had it cut with a small fade and automated reverb to smooth it out.,Yeah I did, I cut off the delay tails. I'll reup now,Uploading now, yeah, I had a delay coming from the climax to smooth out the transition,Probs should have checked wavs before uploading,Other than that everything sounds pretty good to me, good job.,   "spelt intro wrong, so what,Hm, Splurge? Residue?,Sounds good man, I reckon they are ready to upload,Good call, next rehearsal\\,yeah, well we got bonus conent now, so we change the bandcamp from private to public. I'll write a spiel for the band webstie, and I got pictures of the tapes on my computer.,Facebook rather than website,der,Well yeah, if we launch in feb, and have someone else headline at danes it would be more of a thing. We would sell more tapes that way.,But ya know, that doesnt stop us selling a few word of mouth before then.,Also, do you know anyone that might be able to join in on synth? Maybe just for one gig to see if it works.,Like what I'm hearing so far,   Bought this today.,We should get in tough with her, see if she wants to open,for danes?,Sick, who else were we thinking?,Wanna get tangrams to headline?,plus might be good to try and get one of al's projects on the bill consid<Name>g we couldnt put him on last time,like, wasp or orange or something,I'm more into orange,that would be good, get the boyz on board,also zoe,Yeh heh, I hate doing that shit, "Enthusiastic team playing band seeks work in the musical review sector"I can write something if need be.,seems to be the way to go,Press Release for Music blogsI'm Liam and I'm the lead singer and guitarist in <name>.We started in 2014, stumbling into a sound which combined our background in fine art and interests in experimental noise, punk, and repetitive hooks. Later in the year, and a few gigs later, we tracked Membrane in a cabin in the Otways. After a 8 month hiatus we mixed and mastered, and ordered tapes. We have been gigging again since around the middle of 2015, and are releasing the physical tape in February 2016 for a limited run of 50. Feel free to check out on bandcamp at    "with editing obcs,obvs,Ballpark though,nice,Sweet man, we only need 3 acts for Danes?,Woah this thread blew up. I'm down with any night for the gig. As far as rehearsal I'm free next Friday day as usual, but can be fairly flexible with notice.,Yeah, fine by me. I'm also down for rehearsal next week, I'll check with <Name> what day might e good.,I asked <Name> if i can do this Monday night, and she's cool for that so should I book in Monday at 6 for three phase?,I like the thought of people sitting in chairs watching us, makes it feel like a classical performance.,Should get operatic.,Plus gives em something to throw if we get uppity.,I'll book in three phase for monday at 6 then.,cant do monday at 6 but can do monday during the day, like midday to 6. I'm down.,Don?,Cool man, I'll call him back.,do we need the kit?,Yep, booked it. No cymbals. Midday to  6 on Monday.,<Name>ill bring an electronic drum pad for you to play with on Monday,Lets bring something to listen to those rehearsal tracks from the tape and turn each of those songs.,Put up one of the love shots or whatever, a melody one if ya want. I'm easy.,Live shots,Live love shots,Make sure it's black and white,Is just what I was about to say,Notice,Noice,Fuck autocorrect,Make sure ya get some love shots in there denzo,Sweat off that Xmas turkey weight,I hope so need to melt my brain a bit. Gunna bring my wavetable synth too for lash and possible some improv.,Sheeeit. What time?,Somehow we managed to clash with like the only thing ya got on. We can possibly call up and change. <Name>s working every other day though so I can't do those cept friday.,Is it like, a super official meeting thing? Or is the kinda thing you can reschedule for another day?,Geezuz comrade, sound art collective of left wing communist sect?,Well don't hijack any planes using high frequency sonic waves to immobilize your enemies plz.,Just tell em ya got band practice and you'll catch up next week, im sure itll be fine. If they are taking minutes and shit you'll be able to see what ya missed anyway.,Or me and <Name>can take minutes at rehearsal and live tweet them to ya.,Sickman, well I'll see yaz on monday then. Homework for me is :    "Man, they take themselves pretty seriously. "Agendas", "Minutes", "Excommunication". Pretty sure there are international governments which are less officious.,donesoes mate.,That should be fine for me. Will have to check with <name>,Yeah saw that man, good networking. We should play a gig with those guys and see if they wanna release a cassingle with purge or something,   "50 with a split 7" makes it 250 each per band, so like 83 bucks each for 50 copies. Dunno how much you could sell it for thoughm probably not enough to make a profit.,Would probably wanna do a longer song or two songs stitched together to make it worth our while,Meh, something to think of if we sell all the tapes,Btw my mate russell in gbangers wants a tape shipped so ill get on that tomorrow.,35 bucks in the paypal,slow down elton jogn,yep, just gunna bubblewrap and toss it in a large envelo[e,oh yeah, merged it coz I actually use it, synced to ical. ya can turn it off and on by going to the "other calendars" and clicking the Liam Power thing, if its distracting.,Just black trunks mate.,Nothing special,Don't worry I installed a GPS tracker in ya years ago and have been tracking your daily movements obsessively,Its not like I put my shit breaks on there or anything,They say that but they are actually just installing their own for research purposes,Yeah, should I just put that poster up? I'm happy with it. I'll put doors at 8:30 then?,Right.. just saw that. 9pm.,Thats what I thought,like, people usually show up half an hour after doors,And fuck around pissing and getting beers and money out and jazz for like half an hour,Also we need to have a float on the door,so a whole bunch of change. Probs just like 20-30 bucks in change and fives,maybe 50, I dunno,I guess I'll put doors 9pm but it seems late,Yeah, make it look profesh,yeah, thats next week probs,I'll finish the poster and up in now if you guys are happy with it.,Don't worry, they'll bring something,Probs just some shite,also I don't think they're headlining?,Oh yeah. I'll do an A4 version if we wanna do some printouts,its a pretty random resolution I think.,I already asked them. I said we can't bring both and they havent replied yet,still plenty of time to sort it out though,Yeah man, they're yours to do with what you wish. I only wanted em back to add sensitivity controls.,Sent thru,Ey blokes did we wanna play a gig with some Adelaide Band "Men with Chips" on the 31st of March? Almost counts as an April show.,Checked out their soundcloud, they seem pretty aligned,Its a thursday night at the tote bandroom, which scares me for numbers,Ffs i need new tuning keys for my guitar.,You ever bought replacements donbo?,Dang. Apparently my guitar hasa a non standard hole size or something so if i buy new ones ill have to drill out the holes.,Gunna make something out of wood for now,Fuck. Why didn't i buy a jag or something when i was 21,I told <Name> i needa buy a new guitar and she was like save up hour gig money. So will probably have a new one in about 6 years,Man, if you could part with one just to loan for a bit. Ill totally build ya some synth stuff.,Just til i figure out the machine head situation,Awesome man. I aint picky at all.,Would only be for like a month too.,Siiiick. Ill keep ya posted. Pissed coz i spent all night guitar teching cleaning the old girl out and replacing <name> and the tuner just broke off. Whackass. Will probs find some machine heads on ebay or something but might take a while.,Its coz they are made of plastic and are literally juat glued onto the shaft. Glue got old. Nice looking pickups tho.,My guitar isnt the worst but the tuners suck butts.,I'm in. Would be nice to just show up and play.,Also we need all the gigs we can get at the moment to imprint our brand upon the collective unconscious. So Ill message back and confirm?,Made acrylic cover. No more bare wires,Somewhat less crafty,Works pretty well though. Found tuners online. Ord<Name>g some today. Did action and restring and intonation. Plays pretty well now,Guitar tech is fun,Shit yeah. Wanna get her singin.,Fuck. We have a wedding we have to go to on the 19th of march. So i might have to show up at danes slightly later. Like 9:30. I can soundcheck in between bands.,Yeah exactly not like some sound guy waiting round for ages. Might miss <name> though. I'll se how I go. I can possibly drop my gear off beforehand or something?,Yeah, figured soundcheck would be pretty basic,actually its cool we'll put my amp and shit in the car. Forgot we arent taking <Name> so should have room in the boot.,We lined it with dirty ol' shag.,So at least he's comfortable,plus he gets some exercise trying to hold on,Fuck yes,I'll buy a ticket too,Yeah I've heard of her work but never seen her live,Cool ticket booked,And cleared with the ol ball and chain,Hahaha is an obscure sound art show bound to sell out 4 weeks before the actual show? Come on <Name>you know the answer to that question,PS have your own guys seen this? Lawrence English bestowing some truth nuggets    "Shattered,Still time for you to quit and go on new start,Maybe?,Oh no that was an accident,I was trying to do this emoji,\ude2d,\ude2d,Ayes!!! That'd be lovely jubblys lovey.,Cool slamboree. Maybe you should come round tomorrow. My 4th shift for tge week and ezin might be getting to the end of her rope of sanity.,<Name> smells,Oh no Is she in the convo as well? How embarrassing!,At like 4? Turns out <Name>'s aunty is gunna come round so you don't have to come if you don't want to. Might be more useful on Sunday if you are free as I've got a longer shift.,Confirmed,Yumbolanis. I got assessment centre that day so will be wanting some home cooked goodness. I'll ask <Name>.,<Name> says: NNNNNNNNGOOOOOOO O,That'd be nice asssss either that or after 9 when <Name> goes to sleep,Yeah good call was just giving ya options dude bag,Cool man in making snag rolls and chicken pie and egg sambos,<Name> smells.,Oh whoops!,DAMAGE CONTROL,Anytimez babbababys,Totally come by if ya wanna buddy. We can have coffee,Yeah mate. Go for it. Ya can even watch franno for a bit if ya want.,Yup,Got what <Name> had,Suit dogs,Shit dogs,Sorry about that dudette,Its not that bad though' only a 72 hour thing really,You could just be thirsty,Hehe,Iml get like that when im a bit thirsty,Try some water,Oh good,Oh no! Better have  some more,Licky,Lucky,Whopps,Must be thirsty,Srs its not thst bad. <Name> is doing alright and he got it like 3 days ago. Get some coldnflumeds,Nah got sick bb at our place,Menulog lemonade,Selfie bb","" "Best property bros ref,Lol",""""""""""" "What is this???","""""""" "Holy shirt,The trans Facebook community is fucked. Give in to any and all demands right now dont anger them,Just do whatever they say,Seriously,Hellyes,do it,Might even have a bev,Biscuit Energy Vaccuum,Franks at daycare tomorrow bur ya can come by afterwards if ya want.,Like 5ish,Always,Winner winner,Totally! Would be awesome.,Chicken burgers?,Possibly,Yeah man, go for it, I got my big cast iron pan, perfect for fryin,Yep,Possibly? Would have to ask <Name> coz its her parents,No,XD,Your heart,Which one did Yu borrow? Guys has got the bigger one., <name>,Yeah, You can has","" "That's you wif ur zines,Lol,This me to your thoughts,Ur thoughts r a TV,Yeah let's all go and convoy down or something. We're gunna be fundraising forthright wedding so might be good for a buffer zone.,Saturday or Sunday better for everyone,Nah come down,Cooooooooo,No orbs will go in the morning if possible like 10:30 or thereabouts depending on franks nap. Hopefully he can have a sleep in the car on the way down and be fresh as a daisy for them.,JINX,we gotta great big bonvoyyy,==bonsoyy,bonsoyu!,oh god,yup,go ahead,if you bring food,lol jk,but seriously,but j,jk,jk,im not holding your stuff at ransom for food,just need to see the food before I hand it over,haha,she woulda been pretty left over,howd you pull up?,yaha,you're a trooper,lawlawlawlawl,has,he had it all? What a jerk,he's gone and had it,like a monkey,what a garbageman,what a hopeless reefer junkie,I'm KIDDING,get over it brag,Yeah, don't watch any of season 6 if you want che<Name>g up. So bleak,Lawl yeah hound is alive and he's pissed as,WATCH IT WITH FULL ATTENTION,OMG SO GOOD,What is best to eat at your work is it some poops,That would be great take our bn plz,Bb,Shut up I'm sick and super out of it,He does good sorting too,Phi Phi is a hag,she beast,describe michelle visage in one word,BEAST,*tongue pops*,hey <Name> wanna have a fagiolo?,Yeah let alyssa be cray coz she natural,I like the blue one?,nice,Can we pop round in a bit?,Whodat?,Whaaaaaat,Holy shit,2fer deal,Liam and <Name>, watching TV together since the dawn of time,Must have been a scary show,Like the news,I dunno they are kinda cool but they look way too big,maybe I stole someone's shoes,Why am I always wearing that shirt in every picture of me from this period,Awwww,Move to Melbourne ya ding uses,Yeah fair fall,Call,He just knows he gets spoiled by his aunties and uncles and grandma all day and gets cakie cakes oh wait that's every day,Take that, totes a different occasion and way younger still same shirt,holy shit its really late gotta go bed night,farkk,I'm not that broad,lol,beard is a giveaway,nah eyes are on point,fancyass,that sounds alem lets jsut have dinner,lkad,could u get anymorelame,stop bagging me dude you are too alem,I don't wanna ge dressed u[ just in my house with like 2 people sober,sounds like a nightmare I had once,dude I jsut made you toast and coffee coz "your legs wouldn't work",so alem,why are we talking over the internet we are literally a foor away from each other,foot,lets go have a fag,yeah lets have a party with lots of people and beers in the summer and give fraank to some aunties,lppp,Have fun with it! Doing some Xmas shopping today though. Xx,Yeah we're jus chillen,Possibly. We just had <Name>'s work lunch so we might be a little tired/having naps. Ya free tomorrow night?,Pretty sure that's fine <Name> be working but we can hang if ya want,Coo come round Thursday at like 5:30 -6 and we'll have some dins/order pizza,Yasyasyas,Lawllll,Got my six pack of Aldi beer and my all over body aches. I'm rearing to go m8,Goood,Eat before ya come though coz we have no food coz we are too fat,We are all fucjed and have been arguing in shopping malls for what feels like eternity please save us from ourselves,Nah just water for me thanks,Wow guys,Kebab eh?,Okay coola uhh we just got home from the playground dunno if we will be able to show before the dinner rush. Worth showing anyway?,<Name> just took a whole bunch a cold meds and can't drive soz. Let us know when you are working and we'll pop by another night though and,Do it! Tuesday is good for me and Fran,Awe shite dunno can't play taboo wif 3 peeps,I've been pretty socially anxious all day not sure if I'd make the best company tbh,Haircut,Bread!!!,Yeah if ya wanna,Haha,Hahaha,Good one,Such a weird creepy song,oh my frickin gawd,why is he stil exactly the same in every way,he keeps wanting me to make things out of inappropriate materials and not understanding why they look bad,daddy make a twuk out of letters on the fridge,daddy draw a house in the yoGAT,daddy get some BLOOD out of this STONE,COME ON, DADDY,well you've gone full circle: toddler, kid, teen, adult and now in your twilight years some memories fade and you need a bit of help. Nobody will judge you for needing a little reminder every now and again, dearie.,you are the easiest person to roast because you pretty much pre-heat the oven, jump in the pan, and ask me politely to shut the door,I relish the chance to utilize my sorely underappreciated wit,sharp as a tack,best memory ever,I regret nothing,i freely show that picture to people,I still reserve any picture of you before 2008 as ammunition,so your memory suddenly works now does it,how CONVENIENT,Did why would your aunt us with fancy cake,Taunt,We're sick too,Sick of not having CAKE,Yim,Gummo,Cutr,My proposal presentation went alright,Gotta be more confident and act like the exhibition will happen rather than being speculative,Basically they can tell I have low self esteem,Haha,And I need to be less transparent with my budgeting and add a larger contingency,But yeah, have more confidence about my ideas,I guess I'm just used to justifying in detail every purchase I make,Basically they said I am being too realistic,Haha,Haha,Dude please stay!!,Wat did you give him?,We were asking <Name> about what different animals eat and the conversation turned to what his aunties and uncles eat. Aunty <Name>eats...apples. Oma eats bottles and drinks juice. Aunty Mary eats cookies. Didi eats meat. And mummy and daddy eat chicken nuggets.,Haha yeah I know,That's how he said it too,Will show <Name> that video in the morning,Finally have proof,We were just impressed he could say ancient so we didn't want to tell him no,PS he called <Name> a while today so nothing personal,Whale,,Smells good,I am fat and smelly,Oh no!,Reboot the router?,Have a cup o tea?,Show him his joolz,More joolz,Hey yeah that would be great!,Like 3?,Cat,Come get,Yeah cool,Oh Sheeit,Did he get antibiotics,Poopy,He can have nugs,yeah tell ya about bins out and all tht jazz,yeah man,Haha,Didn't get the gif on my phone notifs,So just got <Name><Name><Name>: I'm randy,Was like lol gross,Yeah I know dingus,You get <Name>no?,1236 I think,Lol we were on the side of the road comforting <Name> who was screaming hysterically and biting each other's heads off and then you rang right at the peak stress level and my phone was super loud and I was like FML,Haha that's okay if was just bad timing,Why did you call? It's like one piece of information,Haha haha first world problems. Yeah it's cool don't worry seriously,   at ai at the end of may holyu shiteholes,No sitting on the couch in just your underpants yuck,infact no sitting at all,we're pretty lax, like go with the flow ppl, but no sitting in the house,glad wrap everything,glad wrap joels computer lol,Uninstall steam should quiet it down a bit,aww,Coolos,Haha does he remind you of  <name>? I the last guy looked kinda like  <name>,Did he Mow the lawn?,Yeah hope it's not an issue,Not paying him for extra,Give him my number too and I'll talk to him if need be,Nice one dudes,Hope he's alright,Lol,We keep doing that,My hat,MY HAT,MYYYYY HATTTT,Did you see the kangaroos in the background,Nice there was a plunger under the sink I the laundry,Lol just ask,Toilet clogs all the time with our monster shitz,#unbraggablelifeskillz,I can imagine <Name>doing some colossal shits,Frozen pizza and wine,I can't help it I eat a Lotta food. <Name> does monster shitz too,New tinder bio,New insta bio,Inevitabls,Cool shirt grandma,Yeah careful of the stitch ups,I was about to be like Gregory peck,Like gael Garcia Bernal,Nah,Coz they're all of you,\ude1e,Show the man one,Man I hate that photo,Yeo,I have come to hate it,Tell him to tether phone data for dropouts,Better than nothibg,We're gunna be home at like midnight-1am so make sure didi is inside at like 8 or something and then maybe head off to your place/Joel's place if you dont feel like staying up coz we will Probs just collapse into bed,Okay Coolos. We'll catch up late rin the week maybe,Haven't seen the place so clean in a while! Looks nice thanks clergs,Was trying to be nice Geez. Yeah didi is fine she looks a little bit fat but we all are,Makes sense,Haha. She sure live sher meeeaat,Yummy meeeeaat,Woah typos,Damn dirty apes,She Probs thinks we are very dirty because we don't lick ourselves,Yep all good I'll leave class 10 mins early,boss hogs,Yeah totes he went to bed a bit late but no bigs,Nah he crashed,Bonzolas,Kk I'm on the tram at the royal Melbourne Hospital,That sounds nice if I'm feeling a bit better by then if be down,cuute,I think <Name> is having a npa,lol,I'll go see,Good one,Calling,Nice,FYI,If ya go to icloud.com you can send an alert to year phone even if it's on silent and see where it is.,I used to use it like once every couple of days cause I suck and always lose my phone,Well just in case,Fuck the English language is is insane,You said I never lose it usually,Which kind of doesn't work as a sentence,But I totally understood what you meant,I always lose it infrequently,Haha, feel like there is a running trope of you speaking good and me being a grammar nazi,we gun have a nice lunch,its our anniversary tomorrow!,Yeah he is at peak cuteness atm,yesh,Hahaha so good,Giraffe looks like he's having a good time,Bit of a Amsterdam hash cage vibe actually,Cafe,If he want his license renewed hell have to grease a few giraffe palms,Whenever is best for you bud. Got plenty to get on with that has been neglectes this week so would appreciate some time for sure!,Cooloes just let me know and I'll get him ready for an adventure,Koo,Supa koo,Hey your alright Woah now ol twinkle twinkle,What movie is that from? I watch full online free,Kool sounds good. Sorry we all had a sleep in this morning! Was so good,Heh heh heh heh heh,Too many fellings,Yes!,We're picking up <Name>. Will be 5_10,Boss,Yeah we just kinda had to head off,Sultry,Yeah come round tomorrow if ya want don't thinkw e have planz,Mary si having ht ebaby this week so <Name>'s gunna be helping out with that I think. Still abit up in the air,Woo,God willing we'll hang before then, bunch of degenerates,I know I was making a joke about suicide","" "Fuckin slay it,Reflexes on point,It's like a game of car and mouse,Thrilling,Cat,Game of car and mouse would be pretty easy to win,Nah just put the mouse inside the car until they eventually both die when the car crashes and then loot the corpses for ammo and powerups,Don't distract him he's probably deep in the zone right now,Even the smallest noise or sigh could throw him off sending him into an unrecoverable tailspin of saving and loading from which hell never recover,Yeah but his senses are so heightened he can feel any movement or change of atmosphere in the room,Don't get too close or he might accidentally mistake you for a nazi and kick you in the kneecap,To be fair wolfenstein is Sposed to be pretty hard,I wanna play it just to be the dude with the weird face helmet thing,Still satisfying to pwn nazi n00bz tho trolokolokolo",""""""" "No rush we still gotta give <Name> a bath and junk,Sorry <Name> found a really good deal on some giant wardrobes so we're picking those up today,Will probably need a lie down afters lol,Probs not he'd probably just shove them under our bed and we'd find them a year later,Haha that sound s fun I'll ask him when I get home,Oh wait this is to me and <Name>,<Name> can probably ask him,He will probably say yes,Haha ouch,<Name> just went out to the playground and ice cream with Cathy and Helen. Should be back in like an hour and half?,Sounds good he's home now and should be able to go out for a bit,Kk,Yeah he just passed out at like 7,Nah we gotta do all the shit we can't do during the week coz <Name>'s at work,yeah I dunno, strangers with candy,hes just well trained lololol,could have been laced with something who knows,but you are a strange lady,maybe he's a ghoost,and if he ate the chocolate it woudl jsut go right through him and fall on the floor,who knows,stranger things have happened,Coolbeans. Might bring my guitar amp to avoid setting anyone else's on fire. Also   <name> was supposed to get a pa of of Carl, and i assume he might bring mic stands and cables and stuff? Anyway I'll bring some mics.,Good call. Better to have too much stuff than not enough. See ya there!,It's a beeeeast.,Yeah we probably wont need it for a couple of years yet, but would maybe like to grab it later on in the piece. Our place is bursting at the seams with useless crap so..,Hey guys I am working on the script at the moment and was thinking you guys could probably have a look. I have nearly finished ACT I, and wouldn't mind some input. Its pretty rough.,,This is a character sketch o fthe main guy, I think he's gunna be called cole. The idea is that once we get a good enough idea of who the character is, and what his motivations/thoughts are, then it will be really easy to frame shots/adlib dialogue/ write music and sound atmos to go with the character.,Here is ACT I of the script, again it could do with some fleshing out, but this is the main idea.,,here is the better one,,So i dunno what you guys are up to tuesday but I think maybe we could get together and discuss production and equipment?,cool, I sent them through to yr email.,Denzo and  <name> did ya want me to come round at some point and do some brainstorming re: shots and structure?,Cool slammers, ill pop round tuesday round 12ish with whatever incarnation of the script I have then.,Hey buddy boyo, getting all the info together to start going for houses and whatnot. Probably need a picture of your ID or something. When ya get some payslips might need thsoe too but I dunno. Just thinkin bout what we need to get an application that looks good kinda thing.,,GET WITH IT MATE,Well Mr Reynolds, we just need a pint of your blood to show the agents that we are pure.,I dunno, someone cool,FUSED?,ONE,We have two computers ya duffer,<Name>?,only whackbooks,picture of your license,PACHAY,hm... when do ya start work?,Yeah man, its not ultra urgent, we just wann astart going for as many houses as possible so we can increase our chances of getting one,plus we wanna get away from pete,cool beannnnns,and I am just the scummy student bastard,yeah,maybe they'd accept your fancy shoes as collateral,*accept,Hi guys how's it hangin? We get into tullamarine at midnight on march 4 which I think is a Sunday night/Monday morning, would either <Name>or <name> be able to pick us up from the airport? We could get the skybus but we would have to get a taxi from southern cross and funds are a little low at the moment. See ya soon guys!,P.s if so could one of ya contact <name> for us and ask him?,Sweetio, well our flight gets in at 12.10 apparently and it'll probably take us like half an hour to an hour to get through customs/duty free etc.  Have you moved yet?,Cool beans so yr not Gunna have to move our shit as well. Sweeeeeeeet! Can't wait to see yer, hope it isn't too much trouble. Might have a little something for ya from Vietnam. How's the fam? Mum find a housemate? <name> eat something other than pesto?,Oh wait mum is included in this conversation so I shouldn't be talking about her in the third person.,Hey we are in KL at the moment wallowing in rampant commercialism, not really doing much as we are pretty brain fucked from all the crap we've been seeing/doin over the last six weeks. I want lamb when I get back!!!,So you still cool to pick us up around 1 at tullamarine clegsy?,Are ya? Are ya? Are ya?Are ya?  Are ya?,Cool, will give ya a buzz when we get in then.,Cool beans, See ya in fourteen hrs.,Hey guys was just thinking about what I wanted for Christmas and have been listing after this one piece of music gear for like 6 months but haven't had the cash on hand to get it for obvious reasons. It costs like 150 bucks so if you guys wanted to put in 50 bucks each or something I could put in the rest and get it? Just an idea.,Yeah. Novation Launchpad. So cool.,Already bought it brah.,Sorry, is that bad form? I just knew exactly what I wanted and it was on sale today only.,Yahahahahar you guys got a place in Brunswick! Going to bring over a slab and a boom box the day I get back, uni or no.,Fickin ja!,The ashes of grattan street have given birth to a fiery beautiful Phoenix!,A schizophrenic academic kopasetic  crow,  when do ya move in?,What's the address, have to send you guys a postcard.,Fuck yeah, gotta go run around in the fog with no pants on.,Yeah cool ill bring over some equip firday and some saturday,ill just bring the synth shit friday brook-e and we can have an electrojam, and then saturday we can all do an electrobillyfuzzpunk jam,Hey Gurlz, whats up? Think <Name> just messages you RE: maybe watching <Name> for a couple of hours on sunday. I got a gig at the tote, and I'm on at 4:15 so I'll probably have to leave my place at like 3ish. If either or both of you guys are free could ya maybe come round and watch him for a couple of hours? <Name> gets home from werk at 6:30.,Das cool will ask round,Thanks Haylea! you're the best,Hell yeah! Talk to ya tomorrow then!,   "FUCK OFF! Yeah sure we'd love to come to VINNIES where the party always rages for all ages. But you have to make a creckendabush. Also we want champagne and dancing. You will polka for the first hour then maybe charleston. Also we want chairs, Wooden, not camp. They must be ornately varnished and stained with a picture of us. These are our demands. JUST KIDDING WE JUST WANNA EAT ALL THE SHIT!!!!har harLove and best regard for the next financial yearLiam and  <name> !!!!!!,Gotta lawn mower, not sure if it works.,actually think ours works, what day you reckon Brew?,Shit holeeeeer, let's have a few. Need that mower?,Woah, that's from five deadly venoms when they take the toad out of the needle suit machine. Badass! Let's put these up everywhere!","" ",Yeah baby that scene was brutalis","" "I can personally vouch for <Name> as being a fabulous driver, especially when her passengers are drunk.,Dunno about beer, but ya know, I hear the tawny port is very good this time of year.,Soz can't make it in getting drunk alone that night. JKS LOL!,by the way kiddoes gunna cram a sixer or two at my place before we leave, to dutch courage up, so lemme know if ya wanna pop round for a brew or two.,yah, just grab either one and go left down brunswick rd to our place, no 116,146 bourke st near Allans or come to our place first (116 Brunswick rd.) starts at 7 so well be heading off from here at like 6:30.,I (<Name>-queen of allergies) have super fancy anti's I can swallow downs ya.,*U!!! Not I!!!,Hm, I dunno. Really wouldn't take that much to fix it and it's a beautiful sounding instrument. Might have to pass on that one sorry,I understand. My point is I'd rather it go to someone that is going to fix its minor issues and play it than have it be used as a prop. So I was passing on the offer before you had a chance to make it. Have a good one.,Cheers, thanks for understanding. Good luck in your search.,,Hey there mateys, Setting up this shitty facebook messenger group so we all have somewhere to talk. Not sure how much all you guys use Facebook, but we can work out some other form of group communication if that fits depending on whatever suits everybody. Also needa find a way to get in contact with <name>/whoever else is in our year cause my memory is fucking terrible.,,That's right. Will talk to them next week regarding their.. names..,SO I was thinking that we could book 6.1.9 weekly for an hour or so and have a meeting to discuss issues/help each other out with projects and stuff. I just need to find an opening when everyone is free. I can do thursday afternoon after Immersive environments, wednesday morning and possibly monday sometime during the day.Do any of these times suit you guys?,Cool, we can either do it in the pod or in 6.1.9 coz I think advanced studio (3rd years) are in 6.1.9 after us.,Yeah, I think the purpose is to get us talkin. Agenda for this week is how to set an agenda.,Makes a Lotta sense. Let's just do that. Head off and go to the pod or something and have a chatolo,Don't think it'll matter too much,Hey will, yeah I'll drop him a line today and let him know what we are planning.,Chion the case,They just come out I can't help it,,our numbers have increased and thus our power!,,Here is a gear list compiled by myself from the 2012 and 2016 orientation handbook. I also added links and was going to add pictures but I fucking hate microsoft word,,Haha so thirsty,thirsty for sound jobs that is,oh wait I am too,fark,Yeah Cecil is having a how to use the studio class which may be useful for <name> and <name> so I imagine they'll be going along. Rest of should maybe meet up at RMIT and then possiblu head to <name>'s exhibition together?,Okay, so just had a SSCC meeting with the school of art. Apparently a sound common room/studio was offered at the start of the year but for whatever reason the staff didn't take the opportunity. It's in building 4. 2.06 and the door looks like this. I couldn't get into it with my card so possible have to get security clearance but will talk to <name> and make sure we get access to that space for the rest of the semester and next year.,Meet up at 10ish tomorrow near that coffee cart outside building 2?,Yeah Its got editing suites and rooms where we can work out installations and pilot stuff. <name> from the School of Art said if I could get enough students together she would give us a tour of the space and we could ask for what we wanted, desks couches etc.,we would actually have out own room which is set apart form the space and overlooks Bowen st. It's pretty small but still could be quite cosy with some furniture in it. I'm definitely going to be hanging out there after class and working on projects once we get access.,,Plus here's the loose notes I took on the Immersive Environments assessment schedule for today.,Shop steward Liam Power,Cool, yeah take us in and we can do some visualising,needa lift a staff card while they're in the john. Would open up some great nap spaces and panic rooms on campus,   "Was reading about some device which reads rfid codes to memory and then can change values,might be easier to get a job as a cleaner at RMIT tbh,activate matrix encryption hash mechanisms,activate mechanical entry sequence,yeah, possible that the person printing signs doesn't know what they're on about though,It's not really wet paint they just don't want us sitting on that bench,ha,Alright dudezz on me way in now. See ya at the old coffee jeep,PA <place> is open for next round of proposals. Maybe we could do a group show?,PS,Or first site,   "Also this, I doubt we can get a proposal together before Sunday but for next year we should apply to start a sound collective,Good idea,Got my first enquiry,I'm all admin this week,TGIF,   "Oh fuck yes,Yeah it seems like he was trolling. Also I don't really know who he is or how he heard about it cause he asks where it is?,I ended up sending this back. Fight fire with... something,Didn't even get a warm regards,Come from a long line of office workers,Liam Power,Self appointed supreme ruler of sound administrationExecutive director, procrastination comittee,Rereading The Prince,,Dude yes,Think we gotta hold off on any serious shifting round til after the mid-semester break though. Property services are doing some remodeling and whatnot during mid semester break for the whole studio so think it may be inaccessible during that time. Put in request for lockers and a couple more desks & more seating so will see how it goes.,Standing desks and yoga balls,Yeah defs a bit clinical in there now,Pretty sure same rules as rental tenancy apply unfortunately. We definitely wanna get our bond back from the old School of Art. I imagine posters and plants and stuff will be okay though.,Damn kids,Mid semester break is next week yeah? So our expanding practice assessment is due two weeks from Friday?,PS I'm going into the studio on Saturday night 6-12 if anyone wants to come along we can help each other out and probably get shit done faster.,You gotta go see Tim Catlin and get him to share the Google calendar for the ssl studio with you, then add an event for however long you want it for with your name and phone number. We can only book on Friday, Saturday and Sunday though.,Yeah they are using it for an exhibition set up space at the moment I think for mid semester assessment. Michael Quinlan said we could use it after the break but waiting to hear back from him as to what happens after then,Til then,Is there a power switch on the back?,Did ya fuck around with the monitor switches on the panel? Make sure they're all switched the right way?,I think when they are switched to surround then they enable to output to the sub or something?,Oh yeah I don't think there's a way to get the sub working with the minijack coz thats just two channels? You gotta go through the HDX interface to access the sub afaik coz its hard wired to one of the channels on the interface rather than the monitor controller.,Nah, its the thunderbolt interface in the rack, plugged into the back of the iMac.,Dunno if it works just plugged into laptop though,Hm weird. I dunno which one the hdx is then. There isn't a cable like hanging there?,Dang,Might be onto something there. So theoretically you could bring your laptop in a nd play a 5.1 mix if ya had the hdx drivers or whatever,Woah I figured out how to get the surround working with my laptop,Work flow goals,Will post guide soonish,PS who wants to meet up tomorrow? Went to that meeting about next year and easier to explain in person,Sicko lozenges, 10.30 sounds good to me.,OOh actualyl looks liek Cecil has something good planned for tomorrow. How to write proposals and take your art outside of the RMIT bubble. I think I might actually go to class tomorrow!,,PS I made a tutorial if you want to bring your laptop into immersive/the pod and set it up to play surround,@<name> Vavie check it out, how to mix in surround in ableton if that's still what ya wanna do,Got notes from yesterday and today will post later,,Here some notes from immersive environments yesterday for those of you doing it still,Still learning how to translate <Name>'s conversational style into notes,I know its not the coolest thing to spend our time doing, we should probably push him for some sort of assessment schedule too with criteria and dates and stuff. Stuff seems boring but it is something to fall back on. If we have a complaint with the class, or you feel like maybe you were graded wrongly/subjectively for something, then we have some documentation to fall back on and give to a third party.,Yeah I have a feeling he's been told to leave us to our own devices a bit. Guess we shouldn't be working to someone else's standards at this stage anyway but it does leave a lot of room for misinterpretation/subjectivity in assessments.,Nah I'm all about <Name> Cecil at the moment. That class on Friday was super helpful,Did ya get that email he sent out. Fundraising tips and freelancing stuff. All my notes were just based on that. I'll try and dig em up though,Oh yeah sorry forgot. Will do,S3664050@student.rmit.edu.au yeah?,nurries bud,I'm doing some tracking in the old SSL studio tonight. Trying to set up some kind of remote thing so I can press record from the other room. Will let you lone wolves know how it goes.,Yeah I hear ya, definitely need to be alone sometimes to let loose,Plenty of good recordings made in people's bathrooms,I'm gunna try and track vocals tonight, so for all intents and purposes there will jsut be an off key dude screaming alone in a padded room on a saturday night,Hopefully dont get crushed by a iso panel,You scare me,so bright,Sound concept space,That would be cool. Every room was set up with speakers and mics so you could just flick between different spaces with one hand and drink mountain dew with the other,,Heres my notes from friday if anyone needs,Oh yeah it was locked last night. Really annoying. Just grab a couple from immersive room that's what I did,Can recommend the gold C414 for general micing. Probs the best mic in immersive IMO,Haha yeah they rule and have the most MOJO,What's haooebib?,Happening,How many do ya have plugged in?,Make sure that inst isn't pressed down on the channels and try pressing flip or pad and see if that changes. Some Probs need phantom and others not.,Or if they're all condensers then make sure 48v is switched on for them.,Just make sure the 48v button is pushed down,I don't think channels 9 to 12 are prepatched actually. Do ya reckon you could take a picture of the patch bay?,There should be 8 cables attached from the desk out to the input of the protools hdx system, you just gotta patch in to the same place horizontally the cables that you want.,Nice one,Hey d00ds the third years are looking for someone to help out doing live sound for their fundraising night on the 14th september. I can help out with everything except mixing cause I always fuck that up. Anyone interested?,Dang, @Will Holden?,OOh yeah I'll let em know. Thanks man,Yeah, its super simple setup,Only probs is its like 6 acts, so lots of setup and tiny soundchecks then short sets,Yeah, we're doing it now.,Get over here,Hey buds if anyone is in immersive let hulick know I'll be a bit late if he asks. Lost his email,PS got the last SSCC meeting for the year today, anyone got anything they need brought up to the powers that be? Gunna ask about amenities and stuff for the common area but other than that I don't think there's anything pressing before next year,I'm pretty happy with what I know. Can always bring it up next year if we show up and its terrible.,And whether they can pass the saving on to us, the consumer,We need a 7.1 setup in every room in rmit,Hey does anyone in immersive environments have <Name> hullicks jolt email address? I know he told us to contact him but I forgot to write it down,thanks bud!,Hey I can't make it in today coz me kids sick and gotta stay home from spool. Lemme know how it goes ey?,I assume so, don't see why they wouldn't be.,Hey immersive peeps do we have class tomorrow morning?,Coooooooo,Be there with bells on,Dragging me sleigh,I'm not sure if I'll make it in after all. My kid wouldn't sleep last night so we're all kind of fucked up at home today,Fuckin daylight savings,Damn farmers,Oh I will,Haha yeah I feel bad for not showing up,Haha yes like an evil overlord with Peppa pig in the background,Wait a second, which studio are you talking about? We have access to 6.1.9 all week,Its only the SSL which we have to share,,Man that sucks, sorry! Oh well use 6.1.9 as much as you can over the holidays,Yeah we can. Its a good time to get in and record/mix/experiment with shit as noone uses them over the holidays,Yeah that email Cecil sent a few weeks ago said Friday the 20th, as in this friday.,I'm still unsure whether we need to do a surround mix for Friday's class as expanding practice students? Might make some tokenistiv one just in case,Tokenistic,Yeah I know. It's like they fuck up and we are punished for it.,Who's going to the Grad show tonight?,Haha,I'm going to be listening to some sound art at the Grad show,Will live stream for ya,Sure is. What are ya off<Name>g?,Alright I can do 110. When do you want to come around and have a look?,In Pascoe Vale soule,South,Hi Chris!,So far we're at :Interface is a multidisciplinary exhibition exposing structures of modern communication. Four artists working across a variety of mediums will take a critical look at the consequences of our society's reliance on technology for social interaction and representation.,Great! We also need to make/find a representative image for the show which we can agree on to be put in the arts guide by saturday.,I keep envisaging like an image of someone with phones for hands har har. Like a literal transhumanist fusion of person and machine. The logical conclusion of an increasing reliance on technology. I mean there are countless apps that tell you when to drink water, how many steps you have taken, your heart rate. Remind you how to be human in a system where we increasingly detached from our physical environment. Relentless monitoring and sharing the most banal and obvious aspects of human existence. Like a screenshot of an instagram post of someone on their phone checking their instagram. I dunno.,Edward phonesferhands,I dunno whether it would be too obvious to use social media imagery but I've been kind of thinking about that. Like someone really manically staring at a black screen. Read the other day that they got the idea for the name Black Mirror from staring at a computer screen that was turned off.,On task!,I think we should just choose a representative image from someone's work at this late stage, for this arts guide promotion or we will miss the deadline. But @Lou Fou is setting good conceptual groundwork here for further curation/publicity purposes closer to the show. If everyone can have a few screenshots or process shots of something representative of their work up by tonight then I can send it off with the description in the morning to the gallery. Honestly not that big of a deal what we choose I think. It's like choosing a the facebook cover photo for the event page or something.,Good idea.,NW Chris, hope it was a good show! I just uploaded some images of my work to this folder, might need something more human I dunno.   \   "Perf. upload some screenshots from the vid to the drive,pretty much what is coming up off as the preview would be good,:),middle image is really working for me. I was envisaging this image where two people are standing supposed to have a conversation but were staring at their phones instead,I agree, might benefit from a tighter frame but up to you,First one works for me. I guess it has a kind of "lines blurred between technology and human" aspect that I didn't consider before.  I'll compile it into our press and send <place> an email tomorrow.,This is cropped square,Alright, sent off our promo material to <place>. Hopefully hear back form them soon.,Hey yeah, I'm not sure. Still haven't heard back from the email I sent saturday. On the contract it says tomorrow.,At the moment I'm thinking two screens with a pair of headphones for each.  The side gallery would be good with the screens on opposing walls possibly.,But there is three walls in the space so could possibly share with someone else. I could go in the side or the front gallery I think. Just need wall space and not too obtrusive.,*middle,Just got this email from <place>. So as long we we're all paid up by the 5th we should be all good.,5th of feb,I reckon we should definitely try and get some sort of regular payment schedule that we can all afford worked out by next week if possible.,ps what is everyone's best contact for email. Need to forward some correspondence from <place>,Yep, its 1475 between us. 975 for the middle and 500 for the side gallery. Depending on how much space we plan to use we can try and figure out splits which feel equitable for everyone. I'll forward everyone the emails.,Yeah its like a blackout corridor. Unless your screen was very bright you might have trouble.,Finding it hard to visualise right now but looks good so far.,I reckon mine would work on that back wall in the side gallery next to the plinth thing. I'm thinking screens adjacent now too.,I agree. I'm happy for you to take charge of promotion <Name> as that is definitely a strong point for you :) I'm free for a Skype tomorrow and Sunday if that works and can do a face to face next week at some point to nut some things out. Promotion and budget are top of the list right now I reckon.,If possible we should try and get together online or irl at least once a week in Jan if we can swing it.,yeah sounds gewd,Yep 3.30 is fine for me,Oh shite I'll be ready in 5,Just grabbing a pen,alright fire at will,,no frame can contain me,Hey guys so I am hoping to make our first payment by the middle of next week. Just in the process of setting up a bank account for us to use and need to go in and show ID tomorrow and then we should be perfect. Wei'll each need to make two payments of $185, one next week and then one at the start of february. Once I get the account details I'll send them through and will send the lump sum to <place> once everything clears. Does that sound good to everyone?,PS the opening is on the 9th of feb 6-8pm,PS are people hiring out gear/equipment or borrowing from uni for the show? Trying to get some stuff together for my install. Emailed uni about it but they might be off for holidays so exploring options.,Yeah a little birdy told me they'd be round next week so hopefully getting my hands on some gear then,Okay cool, will get onto that. Great job matey,Hi guys, I just finished setting up my account at the bank and am ready to receive payments into the account below.If you guys could let me know or send through screenshots of receipts when you've sent through your cash that would be great. First payment will be $185 and I will send it off when all of the funds have cleared next week. NAME: LIAM F POWERBSB:  062 948ACC #: 18418557,Yeah definitely not the richest time of year,I'll have it ready tonight. Got bio and artist just nerd 3 or 4 to ambiguous teaser pics,@Chris Bowes Payment received! @Soup <Name>I'm working on promo stuff today and will be able to get it to you tonight.,PS looking at the King's PDF it says that they provide "A joint-exhibition launch including staffing and cat<Name>g (drinks-only paid bar)." Which might make looking for booze/sponsors moot.,I'll confirm with them what that means for the opening. Was also going to ask them what tools and stuff they have available for installation on the 6th. Is anyone planning on doing anything destructive to the gallery walls/floor? Drilling etc.,@Soup <Name>Received cash from you too!,@Lou Fou no worries, I know how exhausting it can be! Let me know when you've got some time to put through your first installment and we can send off our payment to Kings.,@Lou Fou great! I'll let you know when it comes through.,Cool, received. I'll send off our first payment to Kings tomorrow morning - $740 total which leaves us with $735 remaining in the first week of feb. Will send through confirmwation once I've sent it. Cheers guys,@Soup <Name>All my promo stuff is in the drive,Good one!,Looks slick!,PS once we have facebook event and Press release we can send some emails out to get listed on some sites. I made a list here.    "made some images that might work for promo stuffuplaoading to drive,Our artist Liason from Kings just emailed asking where we are at with Promo Material. She also asked for this stuff,I made halfa google doc, could you fill this in when you have time @Soup Kokkinos\   "great thanks!,Yep 6-8,Haha too late. Fantastic!,For future ref all the install/deinstall dates and opening are on the contract in the king's correspondence folder in the drive.,Ooh dang looks real good. Just looking on phone but photo is actually from my work, the bridge and you've got gallery open weds to sat when it should be wed-sat,Haha might be good. I'll take a better look when I'm at me computer. Good work though, logo looks fancy.,Nice one thanks matey,Yeah I think that Kings provide everything for that.,Liek they provide drinks and staff,so we mightn't have to worry,@Chris Bowes Maybe just being pedantic but that last sentence "In Interface, the artists draw fromthe mediums of performance, video, sound and sculpture to present works that unpick the systems thatsurround various modes of modern communication. " Seems like it could be shorter or an active tense or something. Maybe "In Interface, the artists will use performance, video, sound and sculpture to present works that unpick the systems thatsurround various modes of modern communication.",Also our Artist Liason from King's, Georgia Miller, got in contact with me. Her email is georgia@<place>artistrun.org.au. She said to email her if we have any questions about the exhibition, resources, install or opening. I'm going to meet with her on wednesday night so if you have any burning questions let me know and I'll pass them on.,Haha you're right.,Hey @chris I posted this to the Google drive for some contacts in Melbourne    "No worries. PS I'm meeting with our <place> Artist liason tonight at 6 if someone wants to join feel free otherwise just let me know if you have any questions about the opening/install and I can pass them on.,@Chris Bowes done. I'll gather some info for ya.,No loading zone but you can generally get a park out the front apparently although it's a Clearway 7-10 and 4-7. As there's no pop-up this round we'll be able to install from the 5th which gives us four days to install I think. They also need the room sheet and our second payment in the next couple of weeks. They suggested we maybe get together and meet at the gallery prior to installation so that we can figure out where everyone is going to go. Also the walls are pretty thin plaster so make sure your mounting brackets for screens are pretty good and use lots of anchors. They have drills and stuff but they don't have a stud finder so if one of you guys has one bring it along! Or I'll grab one from bunnings if need be. Also if we find any articles or anything online we think are good for the show they encouraged us to post it up on facebewk. They also really liked the sound of performances on the opening night if we can still swing a few then I think that might be pretty cool.,Maybe it'd be good to meet up next week or something and have a coffee if we can swing it. Too much stuff for messenger ha ha,We got the sitting roster for Kings,\   "I can do wed thursday or friday all of those weeks.I think this is the right link.    "Cool so can I if Wednesday is okay for anyone else,Cool put yourself down!,That just leaves Fridays and Saturdays for @Chris Bowes and @<Name> Kokkinos,Oh whups. I'll do it,Dunno if I can do friday 2nd of march as its my birthday ha ha,@Chris Bowes soind good bud! Was just writing down all that stuff post meeting so I'd remember it too haha. Seems like Wednesday would be a good day for a meet up then. Coffee in the city and then go to the gallery maybe?,Well that depends on everyone else but I'd say lunchtime? Like 12 at RMIT maybe?,Okay that might be okay I gotta pick up my kid from daycare at 5.30 in Coburg so will have to work round that,yeah alright sounds fine. See you guys at 3 then at the gallery.,Yup, I can make it no probs. See ya there,@lout nw see you when you get here,there,I'm 5 mins away tram was late,hey what's @<Name> <Name>and @Lou Fou's websites/online page links. Kings is asking and I've got chrisbowes.com.au and mine so far,cewl thanks lou,Alright hep cats the time has come for us to pay our dues. 185 each to the Commonwealth account cept for <Name> who only has 150 owing and I'll send it off by next week. Let me know if ya got any troubles. Cheers,Cool thanks @Lou Fou,woah that image is huge,@Chris Bowes Yeah I just checked and its in there, thanks bud!,So we can pick up keys sunday or monday, if you are gunna head in monday @Chris Bowes then maybe it might be a good idea for you to head in and pick them up. Not sure if we get individual sets (can always cut some?). I probably won't be able to pick up my stuff til tuesday.,Georgia at Kings. Her email is georgia@<place>artistrun.org.au and she said you can come pick them up Sunday round lunch or Monday at 5.30. Up to you.,I could possibly grab them Sunday arvo.,PS @Chris Bowes have yo emailed the press release to fineart@rmit.edu.au so they can distribute it amongst the RMIT rabble? Might be worth a shot.,Cool we get two sets between us so if we both had one it would be more flexible for install week,Georgia just emailed me asking if we can pick up the keys on Monday at 5.30 instead so it seems like Tuesday would be our first viable day for install. I won't know til I hear back from my friend who is watching my kid for the day.,Alright I'll email and ask her,Cool she got back and said she can do monday morning but like 8AM on monday morning coz she's got work. So if you're keen you can pick them up then.,Its coz the other artists are still going to be deinstalling until sunday night,Alrighty then nice one! I'll let her know, You got her email just in case as well I think.,I'll probably swing by monday during the day too, my friend's coming round to watch me boy and I want to get the lay of the land.,Cool cool, its georgia@<place>artistrun.org.au and I told her you'd be in touch. Will be good to have monday as well!,I'm heading in tomorrow around 5.30 to pick up the other set of  keys but won't be able to get started til Tuesday when I pick up my stuff from RMIT. I'll drop some stuff off tomorrow arvo but basically get all the stuff in Tuesday and then install and test Wednesday and Thursday while me boy is at daycare.,Might see ya tomorrow arvo if you're still toiling away,right on see ya tomorrow! So amped,charged as,Alrighty what time?,Well I'm pretty much going in to pick up the keys then heading home, so around 5:30 6. You're welcome to just come to the gallery at 5.30 and grab the keys. Up to you.,If we are able to meet tonight that would be better for me. I've got a sitter coming by around 4 so I can be at the gallery round 5ish and can stay for a few hours I think.,Nah I messaged them and they said they are fine to put him to bed haha,Alright change of plans I can come in round 3ish?,Okay well I'll be there from like 4 til whenever,@Chris Bowes soubds good. Always keen to find some studs. @<Name> <Name>im not sure. I'll ask tonight when I pick up the keys.,I did this morning and gunna do periodic please with heightening tension and desperation throughout the week,Pleas,We should Facebook live at the start of the opening or just before I think as well. Do a virtual tour or something,Or one of those Facebook 360 things of the middle gallery,Plus take a photo of the entrance.. Might just be me but I found it kind of hard to find the first time I went,Ooh yeah. I love that stuff.,!!!! looking good!,not falling out of the wall is a good sign,Was pretty solid when I left!,Got me TV and heading to gallery,Bunnings tutorials here either come,Ooh Geez fixable I hope,You should rename your work technical mishaps of the starving artist,Oh how you suffer for your art,Eating tasty cakes,Hey cool cats we gotta get the room sheet together to get it to the gallery by Thurs 12pm. I'm gunna make a Google doc if everyone can submit their work titles and artist statement into it that'd be ace,   "Please someone go above me. Plus we should have some sort of group show description up top methinks,@Chris Bowesdo you wanna put the group statement from the press release up top. Bit more concise than the full decription,Nope,,They could possibly have it and we just haven't found the switch who knows,I'm heading in now. Will be there round 11ish,Georgias number is  0448 816 634 @<Name> Kokkinos,Not sure, I had to head off sorry.,hey cool cats don't forget we gotta get the room sheet to Georgia tomorrow afternoon for printing.\  " "What's everybody planning today?,@Chris Bowes sounds good. I'll see ya there!,@<Name> <Name>good luck bud. Table looks really nice all set up,Yah but looks nice with legs,Yup can probably help out, no worries!,@<Name> yup and bringing it to gallery if you wanna use it. It's cc 2017 though which might be a problem if you're using 2018,No probs,I'll be there round 11.30 I think,Possibly officeworks?,I'm just popping by jaycar first for some extension leads. Anyone need anything electrical?,Thanks Chris,Amped af,Fuckin off the chain,Drinking tea tryna calm down,Not working still amped,@<Name> <Name>do ya reckon  I should pick up one of those white cable channels and head in a bit early today?,kkkkk,I'll be in in around an hour @Lou Fou,Oh damn I already left home,I can Probs just write it out on my phone,They have a printer at Kings I've seen it,Just print it at RMIT or something on the way to gallery maybe?,What r u doing. Were at prudence getting on the piss,Haha definitely got on the piss. What a great night. Lots of great feedback on our works too. People seemed to be really interacting and engaging with everything,I am on Friday will do,Niceberg,I got quite a few people coming who couldn't make it to the opening,Whoops we should have cooridnated that,I got a set and I'm in pascoe vale south if that's closer to where you are, or I can come meet you somewhere on the way,Defs closer to Kings than my place.,@<Name> <Name>Yep sounds good. I'm free sunday?,@<Name> <Name>I could probably meet up monday or tuesday night. Or we can have coffee with <Name> haha.,@<Name> Kokkinos  Long overdue, well yeah brunswick or the city or something would be ace so we don't have to take 3 buses and a tram, maybe we can get lunch or something.,yup sounds fine by me.,trainspotting,took a slo mo video of the gallery for some reason, not sure whether to post it as promo coz its a bit unsettling,yeah uploading now but slow af innernet lolz,   "I also tried to take some panorama shots but the lighting comes up a bit spotty,@Lou Fou I am going loopy listening to your work on loop I am going loopy listening to your work on loop I am going loopy listening to your work on loop I am going loopy listening to your work on loop,\ude3f,actually that video is fuckin awesome,should post it tomorrow,,,Hi mate, I'm interested in one of the PMD350s if they are still available. Are the belts and stuff still good with them?,Great! Would you be available later in the week for me to come around to test? Whereabouts are you located?,Oh great! I'm definitely down for that.,I'm in Pascoe Vale South. Don't have a car but can meet up in the city or something if you want?,I'm round today, tonight, tomorrow night and monday? Any of those suit?,Perfect! I'm at <home>.,Fantastic. PS do you need the power supply or can I keep it for the FM?,Haha. Alright I guess I can buy another one.,NBD I got it from jaycar for like 8 bucks haha,,Cool, see you then,Pretty sure its fine for <Name>to bring his kit. I'm gunna bring my guitar amp as well if anyone wants to use that. So we're on first then?,Sounds good matey, we're happy to go on first, no sweat. What time are we showing up?,Hi mate sorry I missed your message. When would be a good time for you to come round and have a look?,Pascoe Vale South,It's in good condition, some of the bass buttons can stick down and one key is droning. If you know how to repair it it is a good deal.,$150 seems fair. I've seen similar ones go on ebay for like 300 but in slightly better condition,,Great work bud! Will dig around for some info for ya :),Super down budolo!,Sounds good buds. Can't wait to meet you all,cool, see ya then,I'll be there round 1ish? PTing so endlessly variable.,Good hustle bud. Psyched for yearbook photos,Sitting on the fence about that one,Yeah bb, image and short brief added for catalogue,Good, should be all in the Google Drive. Short brief, picture and bio. Need anything else?,Cool nice one,If I can't get there tomorrow night for a spell it'll be Friday afternoon for setup and sound check.,Yeah no worries. I'll see if I can get a sitter/lift.,   "Can do bud. Also thanks for your hard work putting this together. Getting us the space, wrangling power and the catalogue and I'm sure the million other behind the scenes organizational things you've been doing. Bravo!,Rehearsing today for Friday night, organic body techno,What time are we kicking off? 7:30?,Cool,Ooh yeah looks good,Hey I don't think I'll make it tonight got a massive assessment due tomorrow morning. I'll be there tomorrow early arvo though. Have fun!,Tonight?,Yeah me too. Had a mini existential crisis about the nature of time,So obviously everybody is feeling super chill about tonight har har,Ya got that right,I got a bunch of cooler bags,All I left there was my innocence and my heavy duty yellow powerlead/wheel thing. I'll try and get out there this week if someone just wants to leave it on the back patio for me?,Okie doke will do,,Yes please need social connection with adult humans,Hey Rebekah sorry this item has sold. I forgot to take it down! Have a good one,,Hi, $50 is way too low.,Yeah get out of here,cool dudez only,OMG God so happy for you @Mary Moore can't wait to repay all that babysitting you've done for us xx,YAYAYAYA,Done mate,can you edit it?,Bossoe,Haha sorry I ran off my partner and two year old were waiting in the car and I knew his cookie was gunna run out,Give it five years they'll make a comeback,Are we at early 2000s revival yet?,eres my 2050 fashion trend prediction","" "hope they start makin them in black,right on,Alright I got an hour or two now to work on this proposal. What do we still need to do? Documentation and overview?,I was going to submit a short video work, like a minute or two long.,I'll probably  get it done by tonight? Got the video and sound just need to edit.,Nah just documentation indicative of the themes you are discussing in the proposal AFAIK,Do you have any process photos? Design pics? Previous work in a similar theme?,PS I'm thinking my work would be pretty space savvy, just a single projected screen with headphones, so I am happy to share one of the larger spaces with one of you guys to cut costs. Or I could take side gallery.,Cool, yeah I think your concept statement is pretty indicative of what you are going to do so you needn't worry too much. They just need to get some idea of what it might look like so they can visualize our application I think.,Well we need to apply for certain places,spaces,Yeah thats what I was thinking,that front room isn't great for video stuff cause its really light,I'm happy to squeeze in a corner, I want a claustrophobic kind of experience anyway,anyway, I think that should be enough space,Okay cool, but we have to figure out months we want and the spaces we want to apply for, thats all I'm saying.,Sounds good to me,Difference between a gallery with regular annual funding and unstable grant fudning,Totally, Good thing is once we have an general proposal then we can shop around and apply for different places.,Yeah I think we're on out way,Just wrote a provisional overview in the Google doc feel free to edit it if ya want,Yeah I think we got it. We just have to fill out the pdf form on their site and somehow squeeze our briefs into 200 word concept and 200 word presentation statement.,I'll jump on my computer and take a look. Do you have documentation?,Cool, so I just put the project summary bit at the top, we can probably go up to 250 words. We just need a quick overview of the project and then a really short description of each individual work. Like 60 words each,Yeah you can do a sound work, upload to Soundcloud or similar,So we have 60 words each, 60 words for conceptual description, and 60 words for how the work will fit into the space. Not a lot I know but there is only really space to put 200 words + a short description of the group show.,Yeah no worries, we've got til midnight to get it in and are like 95% done.,PS did <Name> give you have access to the google document we're writing everything in?\   "Yep, 120 words total split between concept and execution,nice one,Ohhargh good work, feel free to copy and paste it in the project summary part at the top of the document when you're ready.,kool,Alright, so our statements aren't all going to fit on the one proposal form (super arbitrary word limits/not made for group show), so we will all have to fill in an individual proposal form with the same project title but with our own documentation and then upload them to google drive and put them all together. I'm going to do mine now.,Actually scrap that. I think it would work if can fit short descriptions of each work into the one proposal and then provide longer descriptions in a separate document. I took a shot at this in the proposal but please change if I have butchered your works meaning in the reduction.,No worries Louis, sorry if I'm being a bit confusing. We have 200 words to describe the concept behind the show and 200 to describe how it will work within the gallery. A really short few sentences, like 50-60 words from each of us on each and then a short overview of where the works intersect and we will be able to squeeze into the proposal form. Then we can provide more verbose artist statements along with our documentation for the ARI guys to look at.,WE also need your artists CV and contact details (phone number and email) so that we can put everything in one giant zip file and send it off before midnight.,I was thinking speakers too, but I think it is definitely a headphone type space. Really open and reverby and would be really hard to get a controlled sound. White box of death. I'm not sure for locations. I was going to squeeze into the side gallery, but I don't really know yet. Maybe we just have to put a placeholder in for now, and then we can change things up later if we get it?,@Loubangs Parki Yeah we just need a short description of how you might envisage your work inhabiting the space.,Sent!,Thanks everyone,I can forward the email to you guys if you want as well,A thousand times yes,Sent it off with five minutes to spare,TCB is doing a callout and is playing artist fees. We should get a proposal through to them as well.    "Cool yeah we got til Oct 13 so no rush. Let's interface about it this week,Sounds good, I'll let ya know when I'm on my way in.,Hey people, our application was successful! We got offered to show at <place> for next february! They are sending through an email with more details now.,I know! We got offered the middle and side gallery? Hope that works for you guys.,Cool, alright well I can send through an email to confirm then? You into it @Loubangs Parki?,Yeah was thinking that. Can definitely wait,Ooh yeah! Exciting! Okay is that all boxes checked for everyone?I'll email them tomorrow and let them know we are into it otherwise. Jesus now I actually have to make this work.,February,Hey I might have to get back to you on that, partner is out all day at uni writing her thesis so its just me and <Name> hanging round tomorrow. I might be able to get away after i put him to bed? Sorry,Yeah figured as much. I might have to come by another day then. . :(,Hey yeah I won't be able to make it sorry. I'm free Monday though so can jump on a bus to take and a looksee,Cool, they are sending through more details now. \   "Dates work for everyone?,Cool, then we're good til they send through the invoices and contracts and junk,I can do monday for coffee, or wednesday for a caff and a laff,teleconferencing for a new age,I'm down for tonight or tomorrow?  my internet is incredibly shitty at the moment and struggles to load images.,So might cut out etc,Coo I'm gunna be in the city all day at the studio so I can do online or irl from like 11-4,I could probably do friday,Oh geez. If they say they are going to come monday they show up on friday. I can swing friday evening if need be.,That's it I'm clearing my December,I'm down for whenever is good for everyone.,Lock it in eddie,I'm putting it in my calendar,In permanent marker,how could you,I'm pretty sure google hangouts or something is what the kids are using now adays,I'm still on msn messenger,Alright guys Just got our contract/invoice emailed to us. I'll forward the email on to you but basically we need to come up with some $$$ and publicity material before the end of next week. We really should meet up this week sometime, tomorrow preferably but sometime next week definitely.,,Yeah, kidn of sprung this on us,we need to pay a bond of 100 between us by tuesday and then 50percent of the full gallery costs by the 14th apparently.,Would have liked ot have had more notice to get cash together,Yeah I know. I'm kind of pissed off,I'll double check and see if we can do quarter installments or something,I could do it in installments.,Yeah there will be other artists showing with us in the front room. To be fair to them we kind of knew these costs were coming up from the get go but just weren't expecting them so soon. If we can sort out a good payment plan I could pay 500 in 3 months I think. We will just have to promote the living shit out of the show so we get some returns,I'll put it all in the email,Yeah I know him pretty well, had a few classes with him,Thats looks really cool, reckon he'd be into exhibiting at this show?,How does this look to everyone?,Haven't sent yet,Cool, yeah I;ve seen his stuff and it woudl work really well,You should ask him if he wants to be involved,yeah,Not that I know of, would have to ask him. I saw his work at the bus projects show a couple of weeks ago which might work well with it. He made these video synth circuits which connected to CRTs and reacted with the environment. He has also been working with sonification of data I think which would tie in with our modern communication aspect.,Cool do it!,Yeah ask chris too and see if he is interested. His work would tie in well too I think.,Yeah, its only 100 bucks so 33.3333333 bucks each by tuesday,I'm happy to make up the 0.000000000001c difference,Will wait to hear back from them about payment and then we'll sort it out. I'm broke af this weekend so will have to wait til I get paid Tuesday.,If you're into that I can send you $$$ on Tues,Should hear back from them tomorrow so we'll do it after that I reckon,Sorry I can't do 1 tomorrow. Maybe tomorrow night? Otherwise Tuesday is fine,Yeah not too bad. Still waiting to hear back from them about instalments etc. Will talk tomorrow in detail about publicity and stuff,Yeah all good here,Yeah internet sucks for discussing this kinda stuff. Let's talk about it tomorrow. Did like Chris and Connors work but not sure who I would go with yet (haven't seen enough). Think at this stage it might also be boring stuff like who we think will be able to deliver the work by Feb and would be communicative and enthusiastic about the show which we should be consid<Name>g.,Yeah to be fair we had this contract dropped on us after like two months of no correspondence. Not super encouraging,Think there's bound to be some psychological reactions happening,Let's channel them into manic work processes,So how are we doing this video chat? I can start a Google hangouts thing if you want,At 2,Nice Juan,Alright I'm ready when you are,Haha I'll make a cup o tea,Me too now. Kid is finally napping,,@Soup <Name>I sent you bond cash,Interface is a multidisciplinary exhibition exposing structures of modern communication. As a society our methods of interaction with the world have changed considerably in the contemporary era. Social media, constructed identities and the ubiquity of the online space as an area for self-representation have all become defining aspects of our real-life experience. Interface brings together four artists to take a look at the consequences of our society's reliance on technology through performance, video, sound and sculpture. Liam Power will explore the causal relationship between thought, speech and memory in The Bridge. <Name> <Name>will present a mediated social interaction between two contemporary, socially extended beings in Extension. Finally, Louie Fourie becomes LouFou the dating bot, who investigates post-human intimacy that is mediated through popular online media forms and re-materialises as a sound performance in this exhibition. That sounds pretty hood to me except you'd want to change yours obviously <Name>,Yeppp,I'm looking at    and there is usually just a list of names, one sentence description and a picture,Woah that went strangely,Interface is a multidisciplinary exhibition exposing structures of modern communication.Four artists working across a variety of mediums will take a look at the consequences of our society's reliance on technology for social interaction.,Interface is a multidisciplinary exhibition exposing structures of modern communication.Four artists working across a variety of mediums will take a look at the consequences of our society's reliance on technology for social interaction.,Interface is a multidisciplinary exhibition exposing structures of modern communication.Four artists working across a variety of mediums will take a critical look at the consequences of our society's reliance on technology for social interaction and representation.,Woah my internet is real ducky today,*fucky,I think @Lou Fou said they already did? Might take a day or two to clear if you have diff banks,Yeah that'd be boss. He was in pretty good spirits today so should be right as rain after tomorrow. I'll give you a hand with the straps tomorrow. He went to bed pretty late tonight, so not 100 percent when he will go for his nap tomorrow. Usually around 12-1. I'll let you know what his schedule is like tomorrow morning though.,Woah, I should be in bed, and should stop saying "tomorrow",Nope, ya thinking about coming round?,Yeah DOIT,How'd you go last weekend? Did you get sick too?,HOLY JOE,Just pictured an actual saw,Yeah, don't think we'd need extremem amounts of cheese, I'll look up what else, I assume little bits of bread, and various veg,carrot sticks? I dunno,oh yeah, fire gel,or some sort of liquid fuel,otherwise we will just eat it over the stove,but then thats not a fondue party, thats just eating hot cheese and bread over a stove,which actually sounds like a quite depressing saturday night,No way, have a sleep in. I'll hang with him in the morning if you wanna pop around at like 10:30. Only problem is his naptime at the moment is like 11-1:30 which mightn't be conducive to art show,Sweet, I'll organise my stuff around lunch time then. Thanks Helen! See ya tomorrow. Will get pram out now.,Nope, free as a bird this morning!,Cooooooooooooooooo,TOOST,Also back door is open if you need. You're the best thanks for today give <Name> a kiss for me.,Hey Helen come round if you want <Name> is sleeping but I can let ya know when he wakes up if you wanna see him,We are awake!,Bring food if ya want we are awake but not ready to face the outside world yet.,Cool! See ya presently,Hey we've got lunch at mums at 2 but anytime before then should be all good,Cool banans,Okay,We're home,Nice,Woo,Hey Helen, I reckon he might like that! I asked him and he said "Go Zoo! See monkeys*,What time should we get him ready by?,Yup sounds good I'll make sure he's presentable,Yeah just make sure to have a calm response so he knows he can't get a rise out of you,Hey, Yeah we're up. Not showered though!!! Will get <Name> ready.,Definitely needs a nap,Yep will let ya know :),Oh no!,YAYAYAYA get yer glad rags on boyze,Dunno what ya wanna do, happy with black and white film maybe. We'll do some action shots, trying to capture the brief moments where we look intense and brooding but don't look like we are crapping our pants, see how flexible the lighting is in there. Maybe we'll just get into a improv groove and see where that takes us visually. Probs no posing, but maybe to capture sort of authentic  connection between either us and the space or each other.,We got it mate. No stress.,Probs like an hour in so we can get wanted up but aren't a sweaty mess. Like 7?,Warmed*,You da best will namedrop the shit out of you to any bands we meet.,That's true. If they come out shit you're dead mate. You'll never work in this town again.,Fuck yes! Theres some steamy <Name>and <Name>shots,So far I like 3, 28, 35,37, 40, 51, 54,,Fuck yeah, denny's acrobatics caught on film. Some of these are definitely keepers, I reckon. <Name>especially looks weirdly dreamy. Love the range of insanity captured.,definitely into the action shots rather than the portraits, perhaps purely cause I look like some sort of middle aged  texan farmhand. I'm not too into band portraits that much anyway, I mean, why does it matter what they look like when they aren't playing? Its like photos of swimmers in casual clothes, it just kinda looks awkward and contrived.,haha...,OOh yeah, should do something with these eh?,Yeah I gotswerk. Will pop by afters.,Sik as,I made this guy,does charisma do anything,poops,I always like charisma,lol its okay maybe a bit late,I gotta go to bed anyways,nighto,We got to join the Hamachi?,Once you join Hamachi right click on   <name>'s mbp and copy ipv4 address, then paste into direct connection in Baldurs gate,Or paste into steam chat and then copy manually coz u can't paste lol,Cool I'm in,Should we use in game chat once in or steam chat,Nah it's all good just annoyed at having to shift tab out lol,Yeah can u do steam 3 way?,Dinner is good.,I'll bring the slabs of grain-fed beef.,An emotional rollercoaster!,Sure thing babe,Eaty times,,,Hi, I'm interested in this item. Where are you located?,Can come by on monday if possible,Hey is this still available?,cool! I'll take it! When's a good time for me to come by and pick it up?,Okay great. Maybe I could come by on wednesday? Are you free?,I can do after 6, what's the address?,That should be okay. What is wrong with it?,Oh okay, that's not too bad. I reckon I could fix it so no problems.,Okay great I'll message you when I'm on my way over. See you then!,Yep, coming by tomorrow night.,Unfortunately, I also am going to sex and the city 2. Not with them though. A private screening.,Hey Paul we forgot that <Name>'s aunty is taking him to a play school concert today! Unfortunately we can't make it.,Yum! Sounds tasty. I'm down with whatevs.,PS <Name>bring ya midi keyboard if ya want, or I can show ya few trix on mine later,meh actually dw about bringing yours, principles are the same on pretty much every keyboard,Hey cleegs do ya reckon you could grab some milk on the way if you are driving?,Thanks Bruce,Nice one,Quite a clip,Haha, jazz pop,Haven't heard em I don't think. Heard lost of prefix-moon and dead-suffix bands though,Listen to liaisons dangeureses,   "Sounds Funky,Thanks Christobel, such an exhausting weekend but he is not in pain anymore and we are glad for that.,Loved it.,Backline is pretty simple for me. Are we in the basement or the band room. Just need two DIs and a mic and stand.,Hey bud, how ya doin? I haven't done anything for it as of yet, but will take a look tonight and maybe get a plan going? Charles sent a email a couple of weeks ago basically telling us what to say l, so I reckon we should just go through that and pick some parts.,Yep, what's ya email aging? Info@theinstitute.com or something?,Again,Alright I sent it but we are so much more than just a number,   a preliminary google slides thing - super rough but I was thinking I could tackle the intro/the talk, and you could tackle maybe her place in contemporary arts context and Will could do formal analysis of a work? up to you,I was gunna do core themes in the intro with the biographical stuff? I havent done the write up yet though,Oh yeah. I'll take a look at me schedule and get back to ya.,Hey bud. Did some work on the slideshow, if You're back on the 1st we might have to skip the lecture and do a quick run through the presentation before class monday? I can be in by like 10ish?,Your guess is as good as mine hid. It's gunna have to en an online one,Coolbeans we should meet up monday morn and do runthru then if poss. Not my magnum opus but not the worst thing I've ever done either,Yeah, I guess I was trying to stick to talking about the talk, but I ended up talking process, which is somewhat related to themes but I think there is some distinction there.,Alright cool, so we're meeting up tomorrow morning before class for a run through yeah? 6.4.6 at like 11-11:30? I'll bring a USB for us to grab the link/powerpoint thing and we'll slam it out,We can edit down when we meet up? I reckon we shoudl do a run through and see how logn it takes and then figure out where we might have repeated oursleves,Yeah I gotta edit down,You just wanna delete em?,I'm at three and a half minutes for my bit,I can probably cut down to three,if I have heaps of coffee,Alright I'm headed in I'll be at RMIT at like 11:32.5,I'm on crampus. You guys here yet?,Cool you in 6.4.6?,Cheers Christos,Happy Xmas to you and yours, cram a few!,If there's piss, he'll be fine.,Hi, supposed to have someone looking at it today but will let you know if it falls through. Cheers,,I admire your courage, to unfetter myself from the shackles of facebook now would be like heroin withdrawals.,Shit, I have work at 4, but feel free to come buy shit at coles caulfield,,,This is tonight kids! I'll be on round 9:40 - 10ish. Hope ya can make it. Should have time to skip over from the tote if you're hanging there beforehand. Let me know if ya wanna be put on the door.,Sweet bud, lets ave a brew,Sweeter than the sweetest lime,No worries jaxxie,Hey Mel, I'll see how many door spots I end up with, already promised one to the guy who is coming and recording gig. If I get another one I'll let ya know! Can cover you if ya too broke!,JOSHIE BOY,Thanx Lucy!,That's shit to hear, see ya at the next one eh?!,I think I can go, <Name> said I could, which means that I probably can. I'll let ya know tomorrow,I'm sick as fuck. I aint going anywhere except to bed and maybe the toilet for the foreseeable future.,Stupid flu thing,Thanks guyZ,Bummed coz I did wanna go see this gig,500 words in drunk Christobel time,Doing my vows in emoji form,<Name> has ultimate Peppa and cookie privileges on the day. Special wedding day treatzzzz,He looks like the demented child of an ox,I'll go if piet goes!,I'm pretty well stocked with type II's at the mo bruv, sorry. Will let ya know if someone is looking for some.,I hope she gets the SACK!,Hey Guys, Liam from <name> here, Just checking what you think you'd be able to bring on Thursday to the Catfish gig, either bass amp or drumkit would be awesome. We will bring what you don't end up bringing. CheersLiam,Hey man, when do you guys think you'll show up? Gotta do a soundcheck,Hey Bud, we're taking a break at the moment to work on some new stuff and do Uni and stuff so not gunna play any shows for a while. Good luck finding some shows though.,Cheers man,Sheeeeeit! Yeah I'll ask <Name>,She is the list bearer,Yeah I dunno man, we didn't have ya as an RSVP and it's a pretty small venue and everyone started bringing +1s so I think we're like at capacity already.,Sorry man,You got your invite yeah?,Well ya might be in the list then. It's on <Name>'s comp back at the hotel. I'll let ya know if anything changes. Had to turn a few people down coz numbers. Stupid tiny venue!,Wait you are on the list!,You can come!,Yeah!,Yeah babay,Woop I have done it and it psychologically warped my perceptions of my own soul.. I hope you're happy,Hmmmmmmm,Hmmmmmmm,I dunno,I suck at presents,My mind instantly went to rich Belgian chocolates or some kind of funky accessory,Like a cool.. box,Or some kind of decorative thing,I dunno,I still have to get her something,\ude01,See ya then!,Hi Katja, thanks for that. Just taking it easy and recov<Name>g tonight. Really glad that e has gotten some relief from his suff<Name>g.,Hey Guys, me llamo es Liam, and I play in <name>. I saw you guys play with General Men and thought you might be into playing a show with us sometime. We just released our EP and were looking to play a show in late November to launch it into the stratosphere. Here's the EP.\   "Hey, still planning a decent lineup at the moment, but possibly the weekend of 20/21st November at the Tote or Old Bar.,Would you guys be able to play Thursday 26th Nov at the Tote?,Fuck yes! thanks bruv, here's a tip: record the guitar amp in the bathroom for that squeaky clean tone.,Oh yeah, all booked in, ill let ya know about set times and whatnot closer to the date,No worries! see ya round the traps eh?,In the bandroom so were trying to get numbers up so we can fill her up.,har har, sick as, get the shift workers and sunday night party animals along. As far as other bands, so far we got Rides, George from General Men's other band opening, and still shopping round for another set of noisy bastards, you guys will probably go on before us.,   ya go fellas, tell yr mates. Not 100% on set times, probs get into those closer to the date.,,Here ya go, got the worksheet today. We're gunan be bringing a bass amp, guitar amp and cymbals snare, you're welcome to use any of our stuff on the night. The tote bandrooms got a pretty decent backline kit we've used before so probs just do that. Lemme know if ya have any queries.,Yeah 40 punters through the door. Which is like 10 per band. Should be doable.,No stressies mate. Psyched to have you guys play.,Hey fellas, just checkin everything is cool for you thursday night, lemme know if ya got any q's.,Hey buddies, thanks heaps for playing last night, ya blasted that set out of a cannon and it hit me in the face and I liked it. Sorry about the lack of door $$$ and thanks for helping me cover the sound guy, should be good exposure seeing as 99 percent of audience were musicians. Let us know if ya playing/wanna organize another gig in the future.,,Hey Evan, that sounds great! What were you asking for it?,Dang, looks like a good price but that might be a bit out of my price range at the moment. Been spending too much on gear! Good luck moving it on though.,Thanks! Hope you find what you are looking for too!,I'm drooling right now, but super limited in my budget til I sell some old stuff. Got a few people rooting round their cupboards for me though!,I know, I love those old akai rack samplers, so many great albums made on them.,Cheers!,haha, will keep you posted. 12 bit grit for all!,Hey bud, got a couple of people jumping on the order so might take a couple of days to get funds sorted and stuff, hope you aren't in a massive rush! Can you send me a link to that part you need?,Haha go for it. I replaced all the switches in the one I got, plus resoldered the compactflash and fixed the pads. Think it is more duct tape and solder than mpc now.,Oh man, I ended up buying my thing from mpcstuff when they had the 20 percent off sale. Sorry! I forgot to let ya know. Looks like a fairly common part though. B10k fader. You could probably source it in Aus TBH. I can look at the service manual and get a part no for ya if you want.,Sure thang chicken wang, I be holidayin til thursday then i gotta a pretty busy weekend, but next week sounds squeaky clean if you cool widdat. You can gimme a textie if you dig, I dunno if you have my number anywhere: 0434646023.,Yeah, sounds peachy. You remember where the joint is right? Corner of glenhuntly and Hawthorne roads, above the kosher joint - Alex's. Seeya then man.,Man, you aint giving it back til you do something you are proud of on it and shit. You got a song in ye.,Hey man, I'm super innerested in that keyboard case, did you have any particular booze you wanted?,That seems fair for such a lux case, might just have to run it by the better half cash wise. If you're interested I could do a nice sixer (craft) and a bottle of organic 2010 red from my grandparent's farm in curlewis. Seriously one of the best wines I've ever had and won a gold medal at some sort of wine championship in VIC.,or if ya need any audio shit repaied too I'm pretty gun with a sold<Name>g iron,*repaired,cool slammers, are ya round tomorrow? I'm just in coburg so can come meet ya somewhere,used to live near there. Near victoria street?,Cool I'll message ya on here, but maybe like lunchtime tomorrow if you're round?,fair enough, not eveyone is a ratty student eh,cool, I'll see what I can do, might have to be thurs,cool, thanks man. talk soon,keep it in the fam for sure. You friends with Joel?,Small world, he's dating my sister <Name>,Crazy pants,Damn incestuous melbourne,Everyone is dating someone's sister,ha, partner will kill me if I bring too much stuff home,Hoarding tendencies,Thanks for the offer though,I envy that, my life is a tangle of wires and half finished projects,Don't wanna go too far and end up empty headed though,har,Plenty going on in the basement,I do solo under VLF, build synths and jazz, sort of 80s dark new wave type stuff. Then guitar/vocals with <name>.,Here's a soundcloud\   "Ableton for drums, and a weird little modular synth thing from italy for bass and leads mostly,Seeing as you're friends with Al and Louis probably means you play in a band too right?,whoops, didnt see last message,I'm still starting out with solo stuff, but its pretty liberating,figuring out how much to improvise and how much to pre-record is a big one,thats where ableton comes in handy, I remember starting out being like "I'm gunna do everything live, loop pedal and drums and bass and guitar and synth and vocals" but I think people's expectations are pretty different for a solo act than for a band,you can get away with more preparation, but like, launchpad and ableton is good cause you are still kind of playing the music, even if some parts are prerecorded,that would be cool, escape from that whole stage persona thing,can get pretty annoying playing live after a while,what did you play when you were in bands?,think I've heard of pure shit before,cool, into it,grimy,You got all the gear and jazz ya need to make it happen?,cool, so that's the easy bit, inspiration and motivation are the worst,as ya probably know,I hear ya, got a toddler at home. I guess its just blocking out like an hour every night to write music, or jam or whatever whenever you can, and turn everything off except music stuff, remove distractions, and just pay for a bit and see what you come up with and then do it again every day til you come up with something,soz if ranty,Cool, I might grab it anyway. Might be able to patch it up!,Ok cool, I'll see if I can get out tonight. Might have to put it off til later if not man. Pretty busy this week. Not super urgent for me so whatever works for you. Will be pretty free next week.,Whoops, sorry man I totally forgot. Yeah I'll be round Brunswick today I can come by and pick it up, when's good for you?,Cool I'll probably head past in an hour or two if that's alright. Will smash you a text when I'm nearby,,Haha, thanks bruv! Pretty psyched.,Thanks man but probs just gunna buy a new one at some point. Getting some $$$$ for my bday so should work out. Thanks  for off<Name>g though.,Haha, thanks, I got enough tall guy back problems without adding a tiny bike into the mix.,450 aud or US? That might be the best deal you'll get unless you can find one second hand local.,oh yeah thats a pretty good deal,   "this guy's selling for 438 in NSW, not sure what he'd charge for shipping but ya might get it sooner,he says "will post" in the item description, think they guy just isnt too ebya savvy,ebay,Yeah reverb is good but shipping from US can be spenno and slow sometimes,Make sure you pay through paypal though so ya got buyer protection if it shows up not working. Or ask the guy to send you a video of it on or something if it feels off.,No worries, I was confused as shit too har,so many different loopers,I haven't bought on in like 5 years and they've gotten so intense and huge,like space stations,Perfect! It's a damn fancy looper. I reckon he'll be stoked af,Extreme! Work called me up today and I gotta work til 4, then I am going to go to the library and fucking belt this asshole assignment out once and for all. Tried callin you, did not answer.  Guten Morgen. If you want to come in and finish this fucker with me, ill be in the library or whatever.  Keep it real.  Liam Power,good cause I want my books back.,Dearest Katey K,About previous message: har har, sorry, I was just pissed that you went offline before I could ask for my precious books.Also, I have your Irvine Welsh: my mum read it as well. Hope England is going smashing, I bet you are going cruising down in Camden or whatever. Bash some pakis for me willya? By the way, did you get that anthrax <Name>sent you? See you in second year or before, can't wait to wallow in misanthropy with you again when you get back. Or watch battle royale or chappelles show or something.Kindest Regards and Sincerest CondolencesLiam Power,I am fucking sick of shit over here and have noone to fucking bitch to and thus I miss you. When do you get back?,oh no nothing really, I mean, I am always sick of shit.,Finally the fucking kid pulled through. What a unnecessary saga. Never take out a mortgage with old Liam boy. You're not in Europe yet! When the hell are you at uni? Please say Monday or Wednesday? If not I can leave it in some discreet place such as in the female can or an ashtray at the shitty overpriced cafe.I hope you dig it, you've probably heard half the bands anyway, but screw it now they are all collated on one tape for your convenience. Liam,hey matey,yeah, reckon I will,money,money,no worries partener,CLUNTCH,we could always do a robbery,yeah I'll come round and settle, though it does feel kinda like I'm giving those other dudes a weeks rent,fuck yeah,steal the coffee machine,oh yeah,whoops,plah,doesnt really matter,oh, hi gis,us <name> hauling his narrow ass to this party tomorro wnight?,and are you?,I got addicted to that boardwalk empire show, its fucking with my life,we still got half that cask at <Name>s,and I might spring for a weekend cask,us bastards gotta stick together,so its 500, thats it?,alrighty then, AHH YEAH,should be FUN,see ya round kiddo,BABY BABY,I'M YOUR LITTLE BABY,WAAAAAAAAAAHHHH,WAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH,alrght, see ya tomorrow ya bastard,SUMMERTIME,janis version,you gotta sing it perfect,you too you huge assed doe eyed chcoclate puddin,Thanks Jami, no hard feelings on my part matey but <Name> decided what was happening between you two and I'm pretty sure it's not malicious or anything like that. It's just her moving on to another part of her life. Nice to hear from you though.,Awrgh, thanks for the message dude, expressing some top notch sentiments, but if ya wanna see come over and see the baby/be friends with <Name> again, take it up with <Name>. She's pretty pissed at you for whatever reasons, and they are her reasons. Both of your lives have changed a lot and I don't think there is much chance at all of you guys being friends, she doesn't seem to want to see you or talk to you anymore. I'm sorry,  its super awkward for me having to explain stuff to you, and I honestly don't have anything against you, but I feel like you are just trying to get to <Name> through me.,Cool, well thanks for the sympathy man, we ended up working everything out this week, but I did think it was nice that you messaged. I feel shitty about the way things have gone, but <Name> just does that, she cuts people out of her life when she cant deal with them anymore, and I'm her partner and I have to stick by her, now more than ever. I hope things are going well for you guys.,Yeah it was pretty annoying to find. Pretty sure I found it at greville st. Cool man, glad to hear your sticking with te full time shit though. It can get a bit hairy. I dunno about study man, I'm being the full time parent at the moment so not sure what we'll end up doing. Stay at home dad life.,Yeah I heard you guys were clawing your way into the middle class. Nice one.,Hm. I dunno man,   she mighn't be very receptive to that, I think you might have to wait a while.,Way to go on being in cleas exhibition though,We actually might go, so you can talk to <Name> then or something, I honestly dont know what she thinks about the whole thing man.,Aww thanks dude ill let her know,Whoops,Thanks bud I let her know,Hey, how ya doin? I'm Liam, <Name>'s brother, pretty sure we might have met before. Anyway, I just sent through a submission for your zine, so let me know if it needs an edit or anything.,I knew it, oopsie daisies, pretty sure I assume everyone has face blindness like me. Sounds good.,Bossoes, hope you're into it.,Pesto missed a video chat with you.,Pesto missed a video chat with you.,,Woah shit totally pocket dialled you. My phone is literally a piece of shit break and has been calling obscure people all day. Sorry about that matey.,That voice message is pocket static and inane weather nonsense.,Pretty sure its me and my partner actually talking about the weather. How very dull.,hey nicky d-o ya know how I lent you some cash the other weekend to buy some goods? Kinda just got sprung with some bills so was wonderingif youre cool for it anytime this week?,Yah baby,,Hey we are just hanging round at Denny's will probably head in soonish, what you doing., mofo,,Shit,<number>,That's the ticket!,At the forum maybe?,Me might be? Ya heard of something?,We,We might be able to bit we're playing twice next month anyways at the tote. I'll ask the fellows.,Yikes, no shit, well we could probably play later in the month if you guys are still looking by them,will do peggy sue,Hey dude ya should call <Name> or come over or something, it's been 9 weeks since her baby was born!,Yeah no pressure man just lettin ya know ya can if ya want to.,If the pay is good and I can get enough hours I'm interested, what kinda labouring work/whereabouts?,Hm. That sounds pretty great actually. The only problem would be with tax etc. The reason I was looking for cash in hand work was it would probably be a temporary type thing, but I am open to switching if the work seemed steady. Sure <Name> would be open to the idea. Thanks for letting me know!,Yeah as long as it wouldn't be putting you out or anything. I'm keen to work but my schedule is still a little chaotic at the moment.,Cool man well have a unofficial chat with her. I'm definitely reliable. And strong. Mention my strength,And I was looking for an "office" job anyway. Ha ha,Both my names convey equal power.,Haha, sorry if that was a bit abrupt.,Cool man, talk to ya soon.,Always a good strategy. I can take a look at it, might be a switch needs cleaning or something, but digital pedals aren't my forte usually. Can defs look at it though  + other pedals you got some probs with,So it doesn't switch between modes properly/consistently? Glancing at the old service manual that probably means replacing the rotary switch/pot that controls mode selection. If it's that simple I could definitely do it.,Might be 10 bucks for new pot and an hour or twos work,Still could be the pot then, if its one of those clicky detented ones they can get sticky and shit with age and its switching to some no mans land between modes instead of clicking into the mode that its supposed to. Probably the delay processor chip is looking for some set voltage but as the pot has gotten old it has changed its chemical makeup and resistance imperceptibly. Like a scratchy volume pot on an amp or something, but instead of hearing the scratch, it is affecting the ability to recognize mode changes,wall of text coz brainstorming,well sight unseen I can't be sure, but yeah, usually its something as simple as that. Its pretty rare that the chip will have burned out or anything, so its probably some sort of component failure,well yeah, I looked into getting the part, might have to come from the US coz we live on a shitty island, but I could proabbly fix it. I'm at uni all week in the city if ya wanna meet up and ill grab it off ya,lay it on me,ill do some research on em,just gimme something to research man.. I love it,runs in the family,so its not recognizing the last 1/5th or so of travel. Is it sposed to go to 99 or 127?,fricking eventide,BASTARDS,I'm so angry right now,its supposed to be 99,nah I dunno,anyway,it came with a expression pedal or this is a seperate one?,right, hm. I'll look into that. Probably a shit pedal to get apart let along look at, migh tneed the exp pedal input <name> replacing, something might be shorting out or some jazz.,*let alone,fucking typos,did ya see anything awry, bad smells/burned shit on the board?,yeah, could be that the plug isn't making contact with the <name> properly. Probs could replace the <name> in that case.,You seen this?From eventide website:"Our Stompboxes will work with any Expression Pedal that is a simple resistive load (potentiometer) with a max value of 25kOhms. For the best performance we recommend the Ernie Ball VP Jr. 25k. Connect the Output to the Eventide Stompbox Expression Pedal Input. We have also had success with the M-Audio MGear EX.P Expression Pedal.,But it worked before and doesnt work properly now so we can rule that out,Jayzus,oh yeah, I seem to remember you mentioning something about it one time. That's an easy fix I reckon. Most pedal power supplies suck balls. I had the same problem with my gnarly old digital delay, but built a power regulator into it and it shut up considerably. Not mansplaining but most power supplies have a shitton of noise carried over from the power lines and they do a pretty bad job of filt<Name>g it out, usually pedals include power filt<Name>g and regulation in their designs, but sometimes the boutique ones don't. I can take a look inside and see if the power filt<Name>g caps have failed or whatever, and if they arent in there I can solder them in no fuss.,So I can get em all off you, take a look, if I can fix em then ill charge ya, if I can't then I'll try and advise ya to the best of my ability what I think the problem is so it'll be cheaper if ya go to some professional service tech guy.,tomorrow morning/ afternoon. wednesday, thursday friday lunchtime I'm usually free.,look at mr salaryman,allright,well in that case, any night after 7 is good, or weekends anytime usually,how long you in the uk?,holiday from the holiday?,or family?,oh sheeeit,should probs know stuff,fickyeah,Hey nicko, how ya doing? Pedal update: the tremolo was just noisy AF whatever it s inside it so I built you an external regulator and power filter which has reduced noise considerably. Another plus is that you can use it with any other pedals you are having noise problems with (delays, shitty choruses etc) on a daisy chain and provide a regulated output for those too. Here's a pic. Will send a sound sample later tonight when I have some time,*Whatever I did inside it,So wait, I've got a couple of weeks to repair this stuff yeah?,Kool beans might take that long to order pots etc.,Sick. Can I buy you a new power adapter for that eventide? This Frankenstein duct tape setup is giving me the heebies,It's a fire hazard waiting to happen,Like 20-30 bucks?,Cool I'll keep an eye out,hey man trying to login to h9 control to check the pedal's calibration settings, do you have an eventide accout you can recound off the top of your head?,yeah no probs, thanks man,I reckon its the expression pedal mang! tried it with mine and it works 0-100, and there doesn't really seem to be any user servicable parts inside. I reckon you need one with higher resistance. This Maudio one is wierd af.,oh wait a second I think I fixed it,PS cleaned out the giga delay and pot seems to be working fine to swtich between modes,I'll test it over the next couple of weeks and see if the problem recurs,The Pitchfactor is sorted! I resoldered the <name> and fiddled with the settings. I'll show you what I did when I see ya, but I think it was a software thing? You can set the range of the expression pedal and for some reason it was set to only go from 0-87. So it was about an hour of headscratching. By the way here's a demo of what the noise filter for the tremolo sounds like. This is just DIed bass but can do a proper amped guitar demo if you want.,   "H9s are fricking great,congrats to you guys!,it was a pretty subtle form of shitty engine<Name>g from eventide that made it happen,\ude05,As far as I can tell. The giga delay is still ??? Because as far as I could tell the modes were working fine. If you're back on Melbourne pretty much any night I'm home, or the weekend during the day.,yeah I sprayed some contact cleaner on it, but I dunno, I couldn't recreate the problem you had in the first place,Might be a good iea,coolmang,sure am bud, feel free to swing by anytime,Sounds good I'll gather your stuff,Hey buddy boy, how ya doin?,business as usual then,dang,2017 hey,cool babas, whats the problem?,oh shite,okay thats fine, lifetime warranty applies,how so?,I could take a look at it but mic's aren't necessarily my forte. What model is it?,hmm yeah I can definitely take a look but it looks fairly closed off, molded plastic etc so might be a bit less user serviceable than a pedal/synth type of deal. Bring it over with the regulator and ill see if I can get it open?,probably is, in which case you replace the wire and shoudl be good as new,but getting in there is the hard part,haha, well its one thing to know what the problem is and another to solve it,   these?,dude pay me in connectors always need connectors,shower me,tell him to open th ewar chest,war,all the gold plated connectors he was squirelling home in his pants cuffs,okay I can probably do that but will be a fairly slow turnaround coz uni is back, hope thats alright? Havent been doing much sold<Name>g lately,Yeah I could probably find time, might not be able to do everything by then though, regulator, xlrs and mic,weekends are good, as are fridays I think, <Name> works night usually so if ya wanna see her weekends iyur best bet,Yep that's a good idea, home most nights after 7:30 and <Name> is in bed,Okay possible for sure. I'll be home round 6ish I think,Okay cool that's fine keep me posted,Hey sorry been in class all day. I'll be home in about an hour?,More of a mechanical build than a electrical one for XLR. Would be much easier to build into a small box tbh,Okay cool got ya mic I'll have a look tonight,Yup got it all,Looks like I'll be able to get into the mic. Regulator looks like a fairly simple fix but I haven't poked around in there too much. Once it cools down a bit I can probably start sold<Name>g but has been fairly prohibitive last couple of days,I can probably get it done during the week sometime I reckon. Regulated power supply would do the same thing but that noise filter was made for the trem so could possibly be problematic. When would you wanna come by and pick it up potentially?,Alright cool I'll let ya know goes things go,Cool banans,Okay so I had a pretty good look at the mic, I think the trouble is with the preamp but not sure if I have the tools to disassemble/repair. Tbh given the cost of the mic it probably is one of those things which would be worth the $$$ to get fixed by a professional. In short don't necessarily want to go poking around in your fairly pricey mic blind potentially making things worse/more expensive to fix when there is a guy who has service documents and experience repairing these particular mics. Regulator on the other hand is doing fine. Will totally have that ready by Friday.,That's pretty shitty odds,Regulator fixed.,So you're playing this gig with tyson tomorrow night? Can come by and pick up regulator tomorrow maybe? Me and <Name> are going on our once monthly date tonight so mightnt be home til late. Can leave in letterbox for ye,I'm home!,Cool beans,Hey bud we're on our way to Canberra at the moment for Easter. Think we'll be back in like 2 weeks,Haha yeah lucky I like fish. Talk when I'm back,79 Harding st coburg 3058,Watch out for ned Kelly's ghost!,Yeah, you think that just a regular storm drain. It's actually his iron butt cage.,<number>,Yep!,Yeah! She just lost her phone last night if ya was trying to fb her.,yeah mate, ill getcha a long necked beast down the shops, just wating for my sis to get back with the car,thank ferk,never!,yeah probably,shes around,a lot,Where did that come from? I can organise a play date.,Got some frosty brews waiting here for ya.,Hey dude couldn't find the burger place I was looking for. Heading back to the car now.,just follow the road signs,youll make it back in one piece,Nah but <Name>'s folks are getting me one for surviving the year and championing the evolution of their genes.,I'll have approximately 3 minutes to figure out how it works before tomorrow so get ready for some charred snags. You're coming down aren't ya?,Niceone. Whatcha up to today?,Oh yeah shes having a nap,yeah sure the more the merrier! ya havent been to our place yet have yer? <home> if you,-'re innerested,everyone seems to be showing up round 11-11:30 so if ya wanna come round then it would be cool.,everyone being the people helping out, not the guests,he wants to rip it up and eat it,get some hairballs and sut too,loves that,he would go wild for that,save that one for xmas,Oops that was me <Name> trying to exit out of messenger after setting an alarm on liams phone,Hey is that gig, with automate and shocking pinks at the curtin? totally wanted to go to that,I was actually pissed that I wouldnt get to go. If <Name> is cool with it then I'm down,<Name> SEZ ITS OK,LESGO,LESDOIT,I wanted to see automat,Hm. Might buy one,Fuckin A. Was actually bitching to <name> today about how I wouldnt get to go. We should get a sitter and have a mad girls night,Alright, bought a ticket, seeya at the Curtin tomorrow night?,Not sure, says doors at 8. So round then for a beer beforehand? Imagine the first badn wil go on at like 8:30,You probably dont have to, the curtin is on lygon street, carlton so near pretty much every train and tram line. I can probs get home on the train. But up to you,depends when it finishes up I spose,can always uber,Good plan short man,Seeya tomorrow night then bruv,good drive have,Yeah do it. Not sure whether nun are on first but shouldn't be too bad of a drive.,Had a beer already. Grandmas wake. Heading across town at the moment so should be home by then.,A sheep? I dunno. The possibility of having it get loose, also I think <Name> would be unreceptive as hell. Chickens are probably the largest animal we could have,hey christos, might be a long shot, but would ya know anyone who I would able to ask about getting a gig in canberra when me and <Name> are there? wanna check out the muzak scene.,Solo, not with savnobbies,???? Jan sometime probs,YAYAYA, we were planning on coming up sometime in jan jan, just not 100 percent on when yet,that sounds good. I'll ask <Name>. She wanted to come up for like a week and we could get the grandparents to watch <Name> for the night and go off tap,when do you head off to denmark?,Do it matey, we'll try and make it up to canberra before ya leave,Bastards, dunno whether well make it up in jan.,Yup,The one week we could come down Cathy is in NZ.,Yeah, it's in her contract as a seasonal holiday worker to work over Xmas,Lame,still, she gets double and half for public holidays so $$$$$$$$$,Not sure, like the 4th to the 9th maybe?,fickyeah,saw him the other day,whats on?,awyeah,Haha. Fancy,Classic  <name> aesthetic. Upcycle that shit,Duuude, I'm so far outta the loop its not funny. I can ask around though if you're serious,Around sure is a great guy,<Name>would have no idea,He is tripping balls anyway half the time, no chemicals needed,Ego tripping,LOL,Meh, just playact,I'd just get real drunk if I were you. Sif ya can't just get some acid there. Them festivals are rife with habitual drug users and dealers.,Prepare yourself for FUN TIMES. thats all the preparation you need to do. Gosh, I didn't know these events were so complicated!,WHADJA Crazy, what about your mate stanley? Cask? Bottle of Gin? Thats where I'd put my money,Yulumba is a good idea, wine is a good all day drink, keeps ya strong.,I understood that from context,Thats pool,No scorries,Yup. He's going crazy at the moment though, didn't go down til like 10:30. And whines in his sleep. Pretty sure he's getting 5 new toothies at once.,But 5 toothies. He just wants to sit around and cry. Me too.,Numb the pain,Gun have fag,Can't I don't think, we got a house inspection friday morn, so will probably be running around like crazy after <Name> is in bed mopping the ceiling.,Betwixt 9 and 12,Got ze day off from franno, gunna go out for brunchoes,You guys going for brunch on friday too? WHA,I'm not in the loop,I lost the loop,Need me and <Name> to give you ugys a glimpse of your future? Her staring at her phone while I chainsmoke and drink coffee real fast,I'll hold you to that, yeah it looks good.,You should frigging move to melbs. You are more involved with the arts and culture than most locals, including me,How was meredith?,Meh, Casual Jobs right? Ya met the parents, ooooOOOooo, fancy. Dja sniff the soap factory? Admire the knick knacks,Hang out in the half-house?,See the llamas?,Have a overpriced drink at the birre hotel?,nah, its some house which has half fallen down  <name> showed me once. There's like 4 things in birre.,There's some llama farm or something nearby and occasionally they walk llamas around main street,probs didnt mention the hald house,half,forget I ever said anything,bad things happened there. Unspeakable.,Something to do with a cone piece, dreadlocks and rusty teapot.,ya missed out on the llamas,you must be gutted,Oh yeah, I think they are alpacas,are they the same animal?,nah,I dunno, they were furry camel looking things., smelt funny and about the size of a pony,Nah wait that was just the punters at the birre hotel,LAWL,That sounds like what we'll be doing, think cathy is coming down. I'll want a few drinx if I have the night off. I get all reflective and pensive around new years though. So quiet is good.,Yup. Pretty much everyday. He's not into it.,YUP, might be ok. Friday night is definitely good, but we have an inspection firday morning, and having extra people around would look pretty odd.,Cool, yeah then thurs should be fine, we're gunna be outta the house by 9. Friday night should be cool too but <Name>s got werk in the morn so keep it down YA ANIMALS,Siqaz. What first on the agenda?,Oh right, california girls?,bonz,On a wednesday night, ANIMAL,Yeah, I dunno, havent sen <Name> in forevs so will probs just hang with her on thurs night,Dunno, <Name> aint too keen,Use ya wiles if ya want. Sure if there was some gossipy girl-reason ya might be able to twist her arm,???,Oh, cool. Yeah. As long as we I get home earlyish,SOUnds good, my mate plays in drug sweat too so should be a goodone, <name> Belle,BABES,YESIF ya want,I ain ub<Name>,We get beers,???? What a dickbag,"Boys",Lost fone dik. Where u at?,Out off bat,K. See ya spoon,Peak hour bruv, where are ya?,saywhat? Seeya in foreer brah,Poor thing, think of the pints we will down,whats  <name> doing?,sik. see ya soon,k,gunna find me phone,I'll take your juice mokeys, and raise ya this.,probably a sex thing,What is it my child,Get on the piss?,you should meet my mate stanley,So you'd have to go down new years eve? hat wouldnt be too too bad. Does he wanna go or is he like "I have to spend time with my brother I never see and am too polite to say no"?,Which is fair enough,Hm.. is he really into it? Or does he wanna do something else but ya just have to suggest something better?,Arent his family workinh?,Yeah I dunno, youre welcome to come down to melbs one night and hang. Gunna get on the piss probs,Anyway, youll only be gone for six months, thats like two days in the country,??,Where you going in melba,Oh yeah dats rite, ya get your tix sorted?,Get beer and hang with cleegs,gunna watch a mOOOvie,Yump,Yes,Bob log is the shit,And the nightlife in Geelong is just top notch.,Yeah bb, we be chillin at home,Oh cool!,Doit! Can't get enough of hanging out with people's families hey? MUST BEFRIEND EVERYONE'S MUM.,Beer is very good!,La bi\u00e8re est tr\u00e8s bon!,Hows Denmark bruv?,Ya spoken to <name> yet?,Bizza town. Totally thought you were being rude then realised time diff.,Nothing yet, sposed to be checking CCTV footage so I reckon all is lost.,But its cool, had heaps of people be like "Hey you want my bike?" So I'll probably get a new set of wheels.,I know.,Its not even the money, it took me like 3 weekends to figure out how to get the fucking thing on.,The first day I had ridden it in like, 2 months.,Cause the back wheel was all fucked, so we had to replace it, so we did that over the weekend so it was ready for uni this week.,Just a really fucking horrible stroke of bad luck.,Ballin,Onyl had one class so far. Art history 1. So like, Constructivism came from this context and these dudes and influnced this blah bah,pretty basic,was the only one who had done the readings and knew about any assessments or talked in tutorial so think I'll do pretty well.,Got all my studio classes later in the week, where I get down to the nitty gritty of sound art.,Yeha man, we get access to the recording studios, pretty sure I have to record a band in second semester, which will be cool.,Probably, but <Name>recorded us last year, so would have to check with the dudes.,Ugh. Second week of art history readings and am pretty damn confused by Romanticism.,Blake,I dunno, its just getting a general idea of what his ideas were,like, the primal nature or man, and determinism and spirituality and love of nature and all that.,And trying to apply it to his work,Yeah I think its my lack of knowledge about spiritual figures which is shooritne me in the foot.,Like, a lot of his stuff is allegorical, and I'm finding it hard to understand the meaning behind it. Maybe I'm reading too far into it for like second week of first year art history,Yeah, kind of an anti-Enlightenment movement.,Right,According to this reading, he just disagreed with the Enlightment's idea that man can reach perfection through knowledge and learning. He was all about man being born perfect or some jazz.,Yeah, he was deterministic apparently.,This is helping, <Name> said to ask you about it.,I think I kinda got the idea, I'll just plagiarise you in my tutorial,Phew. On Goya chapter now.,Yeah, he seems pretty cool.,   one?,The last of the royal Habsburgs, Charles II, had a jaw so large that he couldn't chew, and had a tough time speaking.,Yeah dude, I've watched the tudors, I know all about fucking chins,Right. So thats why they're waffling on about him being such an important dude for the romantics,Went great mate, nobody owns tape players any more, and I had put my amp on top of a popcorn machine, but apart from that, went really well. Few people showed up and had a few brews. How's D'mark,Theres an idea, will take a look at the tip shop next time I convince <Name> to take me out there. They got a whole bin of walkmans. Kinda novel idea ours being the only tape they can play. We're just going for the people with shit 80s cars demo,Meh, lots of mechanical stuff that can go wrong and stuff. Usually pretty easy though.,Duct tape fixes everything,fuck yes,masking tape isn't the best though,need gaffer, and a steady drunk hand,not as satsifying but still a win,thats the perfect kind of bleak background for true drunkenness,pretty sure thats just how they do in europe,make it so. Pretty sure Berlin birthday sounds better than masking tape and student housing, even if you just drink on the street and eat a shitload of falafel or whatever they do over there,Oh yeah, all the history, about to do my readings for tomorrow.,Hows Europa?,Constructivism!,Gusso eh? So friggin exciting!,Yeah good call,A bit of a gesture,But a positive gesture, I think you are probably one of many motivations to finally get his ass on a plane,Whaddya mean? He's fine. Going to an English speaking country and straight to his brothers, pretty much safer than hanging round in any country town.,He will, don't you worry,I told him to drink up some buckfast over there","" "I think that's the food porn version,If you drink buckfast please let me know how horrible it is,I think its somewhere between passion pop and port wine or something.,But all the kids in scotland drink it,Get on it,   "Drink buckfast and eat this if in glashow,Try and eat them all in one night,and then if  <name> still wants to be around you when you're all greasy and farty, then you'll know its true love forever,<Name> is greasy and farty most of the time and I love it,That's the dish you choose?,I'm dissappointed dude,So disappointed,Scotch pie in roll,what is their fascination with hacing two types of carbohydrate in stuff,Pastarice meat roll deep fried in bladder,Fuck, now I want a pasty,We got mice and they shat in the toaster but I want toast.,I scrubbed it, I guess its getting up to bacteria killing temperatures,Yep,Noone wants to lend us theirs,yesss,Whoops totally accidentally sent that,What I meant to say was, How ya doing buddy?,Sounds liek things are a bit fucked over there,So fucking uncharacteristic, I dunno what to tell you.,That's the worst. He's being so self destructive.,I know that the onus isn't on you to confront him about this shit, but I would be dying to say "what the fuck are we doing?"","" "I didn't even do those.,Although I approve,Of your response,<Name> approves this message,GA GA COOKIES,He knows what he wants and he's not afraid to ask for it. Just like his mummy.,What a cold bastard,How are you two doing?,Meh, that's just one of his quirks. Fuck staying in a hostel,It'll probably just take a while for him to warm up. You guys have reached a new level of trust and he's bound to have reservations.,I'd say just try not to stress too much about what kind of host you are being, ya think Alec worried about it? Just try and have some quality time together.,Damn good suit,I'd laugh!,Meh, people know that. He's good at rhetoric but you got a million awesome stories and a unique insight into <Name>'s life which he doesn't.,Haha. Doesn't have to be too watered down I don't think.,Haha,Perfect,Uhhh so many! She loves biscuits, Tim tams and jazz. I think she loves red velvet cake? She makes it all the time.,Pretty much anything incredibly rich and caramelly and chocolatey,Get 430,420,Stupid autocorrect,Get 420 and watch movies and eat a bunch of snax and do girl shit,Watch mean girls or some shit. Or horror movie marathon. Cabin in the woods,Vgewd. Kinda burnt out though. Right timing. Almost done. How was <name> boy?,Fair nuff? Can et why it's frustrating though. What's the plan when ya get back?,Cooo!,Yeah possible. She's gotta do some internship,Champagne pretty much. Or Possibly vodka or cider,She's pretty picky though,Nice blerk,get duty free piss,fuckholes,meh, it aint that much cheaper anyway is it?,dont get her started at the moment, she's incredibly well researched,blergh, I've ducked out of the political debate,Yeah she sucked had no idea what to do.   <name> knows even less, but meh. I don't know that much about what I need to expect from a best man anyway. Just want to do karaoke and drink single malt for bucks.,She'd better chip in,Fer booze and whatnot,Freeloader,Anyway, I'm relying on all of the least reliable people in my life to be reliable because the most reliable turned out to be unreliable.,Post Europe? Goodbye credit rating!,I don't think she expects too much of you guys. Just wants a night off to chill and be with her best frendz,Don't even have to buy dick straws,   spesh!,   mate!,   have it!,All this stuff is so fucked. What are people meant to do on hens nights? Use dick paraphernalia and get drunk as fuck and run around blowing a hottie whistle?,Burgundy polka dot tie and burgundy pocket square, I probably got it covered though. Found a few things around which caught me fancy,send pix and I will yay or nay,if you see tie bars lemme know,silver,yerp,JINX,little tiny polkadots,on the tie,   "Move to Melb! We can all hang out together and you got heaps of canbra mates in melbs and ya don't need a car and we will feed ya if ya broke and <Name> and <Name>will hang with you all the time.,And you will make guys move to Melb and we can have barbies, <name>,Then again  <name> might move to Canberra for a bit too. He doesn't have much tying him anywhere so it's possible.,Haven't heard from him, but that's fairly normal. I got a shit ton on this week so probs don't have time.,Yup, and organising gigs and <Name> ain't sleeping and <Name> has like a million things due.,Yeah, but better the last couple of days. He's getting molars and having a big growth spurt at the same time.,A million percent,Can't remember. More of a brain growth spurt though,If he gets much bigger he will have to wear daddy's clothes,Don't flicking remind me, you're back round the same time as the wedding,Need $$$$$$$$$$$,You're killing it up there buddy!,Ergh too true,ner, we ain't talking that much. Sent him a message a couple of dayze ago and he didnt reply. Reckon I should call him?,Yup, smaller out 1500 words of it today actually,"If Dada is a movement of critique, what specifically is it critiquing?" 1800 wordz,Smashed,Pretty much what I'm doing, contrasting Zurich with German and New York dada and what they were against. Anti art, anti society and anti war paragraphs. Pretty much in the bag,Can send it to ya if ya feel like editing,Still first draft so go easy,,PS gunna go visit  <name> in Birre this weekend,Needa straighten the boy out,Stiff drink will help,I havent drunk hard liquor in like a year,I think he knows that, just needs us to reach out to him for some reason which I'm happy to do.  <name> is da best, I just want him to see himself like we all see him.,Yeah, nobody in melb cares that much, and the people that do arent worth being friends with anyway,yeah man would love input, havent written an essay in god knows how long,cool! thanks bud,good notes,Yeah, looking for an anti war collage of hers to cite,Yeah was gunna do that one,plus title will add to word count,Read somewhere that the Dadaists had her making tea and fetching the breakfast and jazz,Can;t remember who it was told her to get a job so they could raise some money for the Dadaist cause,probs that guy,not procrastination if it has loose association to essay,Ooh wait, is analysis,sick,THink I got a quote for that,Yeah, I tend to see them as being more of a reaction to society than pushign for the creation of a new one, but they certainly liked to write a manifesto or two to the contrary,yeah, it was seen as an answer to a lot of society's problems, but then later on when practices on a mass scale showed itself to be vulnerable to the same abuses of power that capitalism was.,*practiced,Man, thanks for editing, I knew it needed an edit but good to see someone else's thoughts,Still got a week for it though so plenty of time to redraft,also still need to write conclusion,basically just poured out a bunch of words today now have to sift through,Oh geez what's the topic?,One of those essays that'll change the world,Do you go see some shit in Scotland then,Wish,Woah,You got family over there or summat v,Copped up in student housing can't be good,fair nuff buddy,"I'm getting too old for this shit",   "Its for you cuddy,life with  <name>,meh, wait and see I guess,you're telling me,You've had it for like 8 months, I've had it fo rlike 2 years,but til recently I wasnt really in a position to try and help him with stuff,Haha, cause that totally wont be coming from you,Shit yeah, 2016 has been a pretty good year with one major exception. Therapy is the shit, I should have gone years ago. I'm working through a lot of my crap, and have heaps of ambition and drive which I didn't have before which is weird. Think I needed to go back to uni as well coz I'm getting massive ego boosts from everyone in my course. \\,Been trying to convince  <name> to go to therapy for like 6 months now,First priority is get him outta birre, second is to get him to therapy, third is get him to work on his self worth and valuing his time more, fourth is to give self pat on the back,It all stems from self esteem stuff,totally,anyway, soz for sharing, just frustrating to see him wasting his time and jazz,Anyway will probs have a talk with him when I see him,Whatever clout I have I will use,Last assessment is due 14th June,so, two weekd,I gotta finish off my research journal for Spatial Prac, which is 99 percent done, finish essay, finish 16 minute marathon sound composition, and write, produce and finish a VLF track for my technical subject,hence why I am doing the essay now: compositions take forever,yeah, well I booked the studio full of synths for wednesday so I can go "work" on shit, but told myself I wasn't guna go til I finished me essay,which was good incentive,only two, but they got this baby, I've been coaxing the most fucked up sounds out of her all semester,full of synth possibilities,well its a fucking beast which can make any sound possible and is my dream machine,thats how it works,naw, just have to explain our process and compositional choices in front of the class,Almost Done! Wanna have a look at my second draft?,Fair enough,Don't want to abet any procrastinating impulses. I'll send it through after ya done \ud83e\udd17,Fuck yea!,Will in a bit just making dinnz,   live in the future,I said dada too much,Dont stress too much, just take a look whenever, I'm editing it as we speak so by the time ya get around to it itll probs be done,Actually this one\   "Google docs is the future of Internet,In real time,Woah,I don't think it needs extensive restructuring so just give it a skim if ya got brain friedness. Mainly looking for objectivity,Had those words used against me enough times to know what they mean,All good brargh thanks for the help \ude3b,Can backtrack changes so all good,Sweeeet, implemented some of ya edit and its looking pretty good now. Might give it one more edit and then submit,All good,Pls convince <Name> to do some werk while I'm away she's in a procrastination cycle,Drastic measures,She doesnt need to be high to eat a woolies cake,I've seen her eat half of one with no motivation other than boredom,chocolate,or ice cream,I dunno,either one,GEEZ,probably choc,dont stress about cake,that would be cool, but <Name> will itelerally jsut wanna eat like, tim tams and chocolate milk and strawberries and cream and shit,make a choc ripple cake its the easiest shit ever,and she loves it,if you are gunna make one,jsut need plate and some sort of whisk,even the shittiest sharehouse would have that,hopefully,Make choc ripple cake then. No bake!,Last time we had choc ripple cake <Name> nearly shit her pants with joy,   haven't had choc ripple cake before? What kind of Australian are ya mate!,if youre worried about kitchen you can come over tomorrow and I'll help ya make it,Fark. Just get a Coles cake if that helps. I'm around tomorrow just hanging at home if ya wanna hang of need help planning stuff.,juz chillen dropping frang off at skol,nah mate, come over here and I'll make ya one,Just chill in bed then, ya dont have anything ya really need to do unitil later right?,<Name> knows what you''re going through, she's not going to be too hard on you I don't think. Just throw yourself into planning if that helps, or delegate some stuff to <Name>,Har har,Such a juicy plot,Yeah sure. He's coming round to mine tonight and I'll keep him busy. Feel free to give me a ring and talk about stuff if ya need. Try not to talk to <Name> about this stuff cause she's stressed af at the moment.,Feel better xx,At least it was last night and not tonight eh? I'll talk to  <name> tonight no stress.,Fair call. I think he's acting really weird. He doesn't get to set the terms of your relationship anymore.,Meh, see how we go eg,Eh,I'll talk to him,Might be better to see him before tomorrow so it isn't weird. That's probably why he's trying to contact you,Yeah mate, I learnt that valuable skill from my parents.,Oh god it's not a murder mystery walk why does everyone have to be synchronized. Space in the grooms party if you need to emigrate.,Haha. I think she probably means like, mum won't want to coz she thinks it's corny,It's fricking madness,<Name> should get a massage if she wants,I'm gunna be lugging massive amp cabinets down stairs,Just to chill her out a bit. So chill here since she left , <name> and   <name> bringing brews. Shoulda joined the groomsmen while ya had the chance,Smile like the world is watching,BECAUSE IT IS,hip flask is handy for future refs,Have beer at dinner dingus. Hang in there. Take a breather when ya can,Where are ya?,Lame,Did she say you could borrow $$$? In that case, esteem high,Better than from some faceless credit corporation,Where are you blokes going for dinner?,Literally got a text from him one second after you posted that!,Freaky,Why do you know before me though?,Ergo,Ergh,Fair call. I'll wait until after a few beers to get on his ass,Not that much to discus,<Name> in bed thank fuck,Hahaha stay sane,Having a nice cup of tea and giving <Name> some breks,I'm taking a bar,but there is 5,Man, that looks like a damn good gig,I'll ask <Name> when she wakes up,Rockos modern life?,Dang,She said its cool but she is also sick so there is always the possibility of her needing me to stay home,kinda wanna go though,How's it gahn? Heard ya going up to bizze,Cool beanses. Have fun. Tell  <name> I say hi.,Pretty good. Looks like I'll be taking it easy this semester. Gotta get out and see some exhibitions and write an exhibition review for art history. Have you done one of those?,Yeah, don't really know what's on at the moment though. Should have a look around tonight.,ugly af but sooo comfy,reclining on it eating some pasta like a dionysian god,I'm all like "Bring me wine! SLAVE!",how was deans marsh?,You and  <name> doing alright?,Must be ok if you were relaxin,Playing house is fun.,Meh escapism is also good sonetimes,Seems like a lot of the time you guys discuss stuff it ends up fucking up somehow.  <name> isn't the best with clearly expressing what he's on about sometimes.,If ya back in melbs you should come over sometime and see <Name>. She was bitching about how she hasn't seen ya in a while,Wha?,Not enough CBL time,Obvs,sickas,come round for dins or something if ya get time,I'll cook ya something if ya want,Oh god stay awayyyyy we will make some sort of shitty coctail,we are all fucked,I am dead inside and outside,woah,its cool I had a shower and <Name> is taking me to IKEA to get a chair for some reason, so got something to do today other than lie around on the couch,We made it out of ikea,With chair,In box,And a bunch of other crap,We only realised we needed when we saw it,Still in box,Fingal,Fingal chair<Name> got some funky pink chair to reflect her cool urban lifestyle,I'm gunna be 13% more productive,Oh god just gunna have to get a job up there, may I suggest alpaca ranch?,Haha, welcome to life with  <name>,Make some sort of makeshift wifi antenna or something out of scrap metal, <name> has watched enough bush mechanics to get by,<Name>s working on jamila stuff, I'm working on uni stuff,working workin workin,I had toast for dinner again,Lawl why do you even order garlic bread,Seems like ya always eat like two pieces,What a jerk,What you dog today. <Name> is werkin so me and <Name>and <Name> are hangin might go op shopping or to the tip shop,Doing,Welcome to join if ya want,Nah that was last Sunday,I wish,Well were hangin all day either in Brunswick or t our place if ya feel like hangs,yeah <Name>s maw bought us plane tix,wana get outta melbz anyway,Like 6pm,Haha, but then we have a toddler stuck in an airport for two hours! It's s balancing act,What's the soonest we can get there while also spending the least amount of time there,4:55,If we leave at 3:30 we'll be fine it takes 15 mins to get to the airport from ours even with traffic,I dunno these last million messages were from <Name>,I feel violated,How's canbra?,Cannedbra,Heard ya mums being a bit shityy,Fuckass,Surgery went alright?,Well no news is good news I guess. You should come hang this weekend if ya get some time though,Sweet let's all watch Rv and go on our phones on the couch at <Name>'s place together and not talk,TV,I'm pretty fuckeyed matey. might just pass out on the couch. plus whatever this canbra weather is,yeah but canberra houses arent made for it,bloody shacks,you arent even in canbra doesnt count,your house was built to keep convicts and peales revolutions and stuff out right?,people's,proles get out,boiling oil on em, hike up the drawbridge,Yeah, not too bad. How bout you?,She still in the ICU?,She treating ya okay?,Yep! Wore them socks today! Got an bit spooked at the pug though but then he started cackling at it and poking its giant eyes.,Dude what u doing? Hear dya got a spare ticket to the Versailles exhibit,Mum is taking <Name> out in the morning they are at the shops buying medicine and then you can come here and we can go do stuff - <Name> 2017,what time could ya get to Waramanga?,I dunno, <Name> says to come here and we'll figure it out,Yasser please,Cool slams will probably take that long for <Name> to get out of the shower,We just chillin,Like villains,You still getting hassled by that dude form the Irish club?,Oh Geez,From <Name>:    "I know it says senior but it's only a 2.2 so I reckon you'll be fine to apply,Will drink beers tonite,I like beere,Oh geez, <Name> is still asleep and <Name> is taking a nap. Might have to meet at movies later coz it will definitely be a bitch to get him to bed. Still gotta do dinner and bath. ,I'll ask <Name> what she thinks,Nah I'm gunna get <Name> up and give him some dinner and jazz then get him in his jammies,Also will get <Name> up,<Name> whispered "come around" from under the doona,Nah whatever is all goood,Hey brra we're heading to the NLA now possibly via a cafe. Don't stress too much about coming out if ya ain't feeling up to it as we will literally be studying all day and not super social. Might see ya tonight possibly.,Why,Haha, I usually make it up, I don't really do exact measurements can't go too wrong as long as you chuck some onion garlic in a pan, then fry off some turmeric, coriander, cumin, garam masala then some tinned tomatoes and then throw in your veg and you should be okay.,My only advice would be to fry off the spices in a bit of oil on a low heat with the softened onions and garlic. It's called bhunnooing and it's a super good way to get flavor into a curry.,<Name>is defs the curry queen of the family tho,Haha. Seriously trial and error with curry I made so many bland curries,Ooh, yeah its just a crafty sort of thing for next week using Delayed Auditory feedback to fuck with my speech.,drafty,Vocal phenomena whereby 200ms delay added to the voice can cause stress and vocal breakdown,Hehe cool, should hav beers,Not really. Was going to make some bolognese possibly but havent started yet,PLEASE,I mean, yes, that would be good,Then its settled,On me way to the meadow,Going to look after <Name> til <Name> finishes work,Haha I totally would but <Name>'s got her hands full with <Name> at work so I gotta go help out,I know Frickin lame,Might jump on the tram with him possibly depending on what <Name>'s doing,<Name> rather,Oh fuck,Can you express post it down? Can cover costs,Like tomorrow obvs,Ohyeah its cool we have joint bank account. I'll just have to get cash out for stuff this week.,Dude thats fine if you're back thursday,My bad I shoulda got it off you,at least I wont spend money,OOH Yeah gunna buy so many thangs,And coffees at uni,What a luxury life,Just leave the back door open and go through that way,Have a sniff and get in there if you want.,Try and change him if he's done a poop other wise he will get nappy rash!,Go get the red jellybean thing from his room and lay him down on that so you don't have to worry about making a mess.,It's cool just go get the jellybean,Cool you know where it is right?,Just out the front,I'm at home for a bit then got a meeting in Brunswick,Kool I'll take a looksee,Hey sorry, yeah your letter showed up today. I totally forgot to tell you, sorry matey.,Good, I got some good news today. Just chilling and going to do a big cleanup in a bit. How's work?,Yeah all good. Was my fault. Was cranky af coz I had to get up and have breks with <Name>. I got a letter inviting me to be part of the golden key society, which if nothiing else means im in the top 15 percent of RMIT as far as marks,Treatin myself to some relaxation time for sure. Got nothing pressing planned so jsut takin her easy. Self care day,Bet fuck all of the ticket sales is going to artists too,Cool beans,Sorry just got this. We're heading off now,She'll be fine. She's got lots of options. We're just focusing on her thesis now as the rest of the stuff is out of her hands.,Wha? She didn't say anything that indicated that to me last night. In fact she didn't say anything at all to me. Just messaged you guys on facebook.,Gathered that,Yeah, the problem is she gets frustrated with herself and guilty and that sends her into a who gives a fuck spiral. Pretty sure if she didn't have me and <Name> she woulda just dropped out of this course.,Very motivating but also incredibly demotivating at the same time,Being a parent all day and then studying full time is fucking hard and you're usually exhausted by the time you sit down at your desk at like 8pm to study,which means there are only very specific periods she can work,and if she doesn't feel like working during those times then she gets really really stressed,And by her having a great grad position lined up which she has been working hard for all eyar,which is dependent on her graduating,obviously,I get shy she is stressed, she jsut reacts to stress really badly,I'm gunna recommend she go to a shrink after she finishes this thesis. She's been a mess all year and refusing to get help cause shes "done it all before" but shes clearly not coping.,Her coping methods are like, lie on the couch and browse the internet for extended periods of time, which is kind of unsustainable.,She has enough credit points, its just not the language unit,like doing one intensive subject with another uni for one unit? I'm not sure whether you can do that in your last semester,but then again I don't know for RMIT,Yeah It'll be fine, she just gets tunnel vision and when stuff doesnt end up happening she breaks down,Fairly common in third year,Me? Understaffed and overworked. Nothing new. Doing fine, but my uni stuff is kind of taking back seat to <Name>'s mess this year.,Once she's donw I'll be able to focus again,We got it! First exhibition in fbe!,feb,Yeah exciting, now I just gotta pony up some cash for gallery fees,Please do. 19th feb,is the opening,come drink beers,9th! 9/11,Hm.. Not really. Maybe purple?,You'll make the right choice dw. Pretty easy to buy for a toddler, even if he doesn't like what you got hell probably just play with the box",""" "Nailed it!!,Gunna out so many sultanas in that little dog park pocket,Woah weird sentence,Yep and Crackers turn into bread,Yah but not a 24/7 addiction anymore,Haha, nah not this weekend, on like the 17th-18th, I don't think she heard me. I'm alright just a bit stressed out/burnt out about my show. <Name> going back to work is a big change for everyone so franks's been a bit of a mess this week and so has <Name> and I got all the other artists breathing down my neck trying to sort out installation next week. Just got lots of people relying on me and not feeling that great myself so those feelings have nowhere to go kind of thing.,Yeah I think I just need a break. As for install <Name>'s at work so all the other artists are starting monday but I have <Name> so I can't go. Cathy might come round tuesday for a couple of hours in the afternoon so I can go and get started. Otherwise wednesday thursday and friday before the show to set up and make sure everything is presentable. Bit nervous coz its my first time installing in a gallery space and I've been working really hard towards this show.,Yeah! You should come down to the opening. Or go hang with <Name> so she's not alone on her birthday night.,Yeah I really wanted her to go but there's nobody to pick up <Name> from daycare and put him to bed/give him dinner,OMFG that woudl be great. I feel liek <Name> jsut gets to see all the stress and depression surrounding my art practice without actually seeing outcomes.,Only problem is I really want to go out for drinks after I think and she probably wouldn't be into it and would pressure me to go home with her,Cautiously optimistic about that one. Glad she's getting some help for her sake,Maybe come to the opening for a bit then go and placate <Name>,Not sure. Hopefully just finalizing stuff at the gallery. Probably running around buying duct tape and furiously typing room sheets and stuff,Ooh yeah might take you up on that. Gallery is on king street so not too horrible for parking and stuff. Would be nice to have you round anyway,Shit yeah, let me know how you go. Thanks for listening to my rants too,I really appreciate it,Yeah she's a bit distracted at the moment. It comes from a nice place I think, like she believes in me and my art so she just thinks it'll all turn out alright. But sometimes I feel like I'm doing a million things at once and kind of half as single everything,Assing,I dunno, therapy techniques and stuff are really helping. I'd be a mess,Haha yeah been hearing about your struggles. Fuck that man I'm sorry that's happening to you. I really don't have anyone to vent at. Tried venting at   <name> today and he was like. All is transitory and things will pass. And I was like okay maharaji slow down I just needed you to be like everything's gunna be fine haha,Then I tried venting at <Name>and he was like yeah that sounds shit as,I love my friends but they are terrible at intuiting what someone needs to hear.,Yeah, ans literally noone in my immediate surroundings can offer me that. Talked about that in therapy,My dad weirdly enough was really good at talking me down. Kind of the only person who I could do that with,I dunno. He'd be excited to come to the opening. I think he'd be proud of me for following through on all this art stuff and trying to make something of my life creatively. Id probably be trying hard to be strong willed and determined. He really valued people that gave a shit about something, that were passionate.,He'd also probably be like fuck all those pricks putting shit on you just do what you want,Haha yeah, kind of hard to do when she's constantly venting to me about her job and how tired she is,I actually had to prompt her yesterday to as how I was,Ask,I felt like a 50s Housewife,It'll pass. First week back at work after a very very relaxed holidays,Fuck I am not doing another three weeks at the ATO situation,She won't. She would hate herself forever if she did,Haha, and then the next 20 years just flies by,Still you're rocking that cash moneys,Haha yes,That eventually psychotic break holiday overseas will be so lush,From your public service life,do it when ya take leave or something,haha will do,thanks christobel,Ugh just trying to figure out times to go and pick up keys and junk tonight. It's not that complicated guys! <Name>'s being super super clingy tofay for some reason so gunna out in a full day with him and then install till like 8-9 tonight. Afraid to tell <Name> coz I know she'll be Pissed she has to sort out dinner and put <Name> to bed and stuff.,Cathy's coming round at 2.30 but I think she needs to leave when <Name> gets home to go see Mary,I'm literally negotiating with <Name>, <Name>, Cathy and the other artists just to get out of the house for a couple of hours to the gallery. So exhausting,Haha well see she's been super exhausted and distant when she gets home from work. I,Its alright turns out cathy is staying for dinner so no stresses there,Not too bad. Gunna drop <Name> off and then head in and finish some stuff up. As long as I get as much done as possible today then there wont be that much to do tomorrow hopefully. Just cleaning up and hiding my shite and then have a beer,Yeah everyone is on track thank fuck. Should be all done by tonight,Bonzolas!,ETA? Like 2 or something?,Niceberg,I'm heading in round then. gotta stop stop by bunnings and then go to the gallery and install some cable conduit,so much fahn,coool,I'm gunna head into the city in a bit,I reckon. I'm gunna head to the gallery around that time. You'll probably get there at 2:10 and try to find a park for 15 mins,Haha yes,we can have pres,Mayeb I should get <Name> some nice cupcakes or soemthing for you to take home to her too,Yah I got her a bullet journal,Taking her out for pancakes tomorrow,Was gunna take her out for lunch today but she's having a lunch meeting,Sick I'm just having a fag. Did you bring your laptop?,Cool banans I'll just wait outside the gallery,Haha,Yes!,Sorry was gaffa taping cables,Yes ma'am,WEll he did get fucked up in the middle of the year!,Hey man we should be friends or something! WOAH!!!,what?,of my friend alice. You know sometimes she ignores me and looks at her phone but I guess this time she noticed me. I'm a real intense guy. I liked your photo and decided to add you, Helene Nicoloa, despite your blood having.a,hey there carlo,whassappenin brewster?,hey carloman, did some signal processing shit on that jam we did the other day you know, fuck all else to do. so If yaz want to check it out    "hey hey,whats the go,what kinda pop music? Liek the ronettes?,ironic gay, or twee gay?,Uhh I dunno yet will discuss with <Name>tonight and will text you today, I'm thinking something like donkey lube of the noble savages,where is this thing anyway?,AWW cool,Cool buttons,how long do you reckon we'll be playin for?,we easily got 20 minutes worth of material,Heyo, yeah we're off next year to amsterdamn, hell yeah! you guys got a gig for us?,how you doin?,Do it!,was just wond<Name>g, we're sposed to be playing a show on the 20th at the grace darling with mai and lei and all those guys, and we're looking for another one,yeah yeah,so in 3 weeks or summaaan,Yeaaas,Hey there carl old man, how ya doing. When's the next time you guys are playing, wuld love to come along and see the whole band play at some stage. PS if ya need anyone to play with you for a gig then I'm happy to open for ya solo or play with savage nobles or whatever.,Shit yeah!,we got nothing booked for septembre as of yet!,We got a show on the 22nd! DANG,You can appeal to their gentler side, and I will appeal to their innermost sense of self loathing,and we will meet in the middle and exhange guitar licks, tonal and atonal mixing into a giant walll of sound that will be like the berlin wall,Hey Carl did you get your invite to our wedding? Just chasing up some stray RSVPs,It's the 16th so plenty of time,We're pretty fricking tight with numbers at the moment and we didn't know ya had a +1 so I don't think so man. Sorry.,Dude you're still coming right?,Fuckyeah see ya there bud,Yup, it's on smith St near Gertrude,Haha, pretty crazy week,Hey maybe we should email the coordinator and work out whether we can turn Expanding practice into a studio based class where we work on a major project which is assessed at the end of the year?,Yeah, like show up next friday and see whats in store.,I think we have a different tutor so should be different assessments etc,So I hear. And <Name> is on long service leave as far as I know,I think the general apathy among sound students might have been the final straw,we should unionize,It'd be hard not to realize haha,Not to mention those damn illuminati infecting us with their neoliberal propaganda,<name> had good days and bad days I think. I can't imagine how hard it must be to have a practice and teach a bunch of first years at the same time tbh.,Though did get me ire up when he was like "well you know, people are at MESS because they can't necessarily indulge in three years of fine art school",Yeah, I mean indtroduce concession rates and then you have an argument,Was actually gunna join mess this holidays  but the 44 dollar outlay and restrictive studio times stopped me,Hey <Name>, how'd ya go the other night? Was wonderingif you might be interested in booking a show together next month possibly? Haven't got a date yet just feeling out interest.,Cool so maybe late August then. I'll try and find someone else who might wanna play. Must have been a good night then by the sound of it \ude43,Any ideas for someone who might wanna headline?,That's a distinct possibility. I'll have a think try and get a lineup/venue together in a couple of dayz.,Cool bunz will do Peggy sue,Hey <Name>y, what ya up to next Thursday night? Feel like taking over my slot at this gig? <Name> is working and I can't get a sitter.    "That's cool was a bit late notice! Me and the fam doin fine! How you doing?,Hey Buddies, this is Liam from <name>, we played the Hootenanny together. What a blast! We're putting together a lineup for our tape launch in November, and I was wonderingif you guys might want to play?,PS, here's the EP.    "Awesome sauces. Will keep ya posted. See ya round the traps!,Hey guys, ace show last night, just lettin ya know if ya ever need anyone to support ya or whatever <name> are down to play another gig like last night anytime, also I got my own Electronic solo project going which might fit in well with what you guys are doing. Check it out if ya want at soundcloud.com/liamfpower,Yeah, lucky it's Sunday. I gotta look after my 9 month old today, so up at the crackas, with a head like a red brick.,hey bryan you mad fucker, if you wanna come see this film we're in its on at ACMI on saturday, me and my sister are gunan go laugh at the art department and shit, so you are welcome to come as long as you being a flask of something and wear a tie. Saturday at 7.15PM at ACMI inthe shitty, Tickets are like 7 bucks or something. We might have to sit through a whole bunch of ugly assholes in other films, but itll be worth it to see our shining beauty blown up on screen (hopefully.)Love, Liam (your little glow worm)P.S (you don't need the tie),That sounds magical. Always love having you. Yeah, he's real big now, a big celeb. I realised later that I had seen him at a standup gig in carlton one time. He wouldn't shut up about being gay. It was like his whole act. Anyway, I'll see you saturday.Student films are invariably shitty, but maybe we can delude ourselves into thinking they're great.,fine then leave, but someday my image will echo through your mind and shudder down to your soul like a liam quake,Hi Haylea hows it going? I'm just writing my application for the Social Research Centre and was wonderingif I could name-drop you to better my chances?,Thanks! <Name>'s doing great. On the home stretch.,That'd be awesome dude if you're up for it! Maybe saturday afternoon would be good, I have him all day saturday so a break would be good.We'd most likely stick around the house doing housework and cooking etc., just need someone to kinda hold him and keep him entertained for a couple of hours while we do that. Anytime in the afternoon at our place would be good, I reckon you'd be into having all his toys and stuff around.,cool cool, thanks heaps. We're at Unit 1/79 harding st. coburg. antime really is fine, <Name> finsihes pialtes at 11:5 so she'll be home after midday, so anytime after then,*11:15,cool slammers, talk to ya then,Round then sounds fine, see ya then! hope you're not travelling too far. Probably only need a couple of hours if thats alright.,Hey Haylea happy Father's Day! So we have moved, so might take a little longer to get here. Don't wanna screw with your dad plans but I'd say leave like 40 minutes or something to get here. Turns out its gunna take me a while to get to the tote so might be stressing for time a bit. But if ya here by 2:45-3ish  should be fine and dandy.  Lemme know if ya can't make it, no stress if ya can't.,We are at 7 le cateau st pascoe vale south by the way.,It's a bit of a clip from Sydney rd, ya can come up Sydney rd to Harding st the catch the 512 bus. It's like a 2 minute walk from the bus stop.,Awesome! See ya then!,Hey, did you go to Glen Eira? in that case I know you, but I am not sure at all.,Oh yeah right sure thing I getcha,,Hello I saw you in class and think u r cool hope I'm not being too presumptive by adding u just networking lol,Win tod we have class together I dunno,Woah typos,Sickaz,Not too bad, got some sort of loose structure happening. So sick of PowerPoints though. How bout you?,Yeah, I don't think anyone else has those so I wouldn't worry bout it,I tried to get them but didn't have time!,Yeah it feels a bit constructed,I just pretended I was actually applying for funding from link arts and wrote my application to them,Course mateo, kind of a confusing assignment in some ways.,Dude he thinks everyone's ideas are pleb. I'm just gunna pitch the shit out of it and see what happens. Maybe he'll fund my project with his personal wealth then I could die a rich man,I think I was kinda talking to you about it the other day. It's an installation exploring the electromagnetic spectrum. Video+sound+sculptures all exploring the phenomenon of magnetic interference. Gunna build a bunch of antennas that pick up signals from people's phones and amplify it back to them through effects etc.,PS just be glad you don't have to do a frigging PowerPoint tomorrow,I'll see how I go. Kind of threw this proposal together, was originally going to apply for Kings ARI but missed out on the date coz life n shit. From what I hear round the traps there might be a few people missing tomorrow's class so they can present next week, and there usually is. So doubt you'll be the only one,whats your idea?,Right on, and it would be kind of site specific with resonant frequencies being different in each space?,Reminds me of this guy Adam Basanta's work, he does like computer controlled feedback networks    "Yeah, like you come from ab audio engine<Name>g background right, feedback is the enemy. So you're kinda subverting that whole thing too,Oh shit didn't mean to give you authenticity feels! Yours sounds more chaotic which is refreshing,I did something which I thought was pretty much a 1:1 appropriation of David Tudors rainforest last year and nobody noticed til i told them. Would gotten away with it too if it weren't for those meddling kids,Ooh yeah somewhere! Yeah I know we gotta a bunch of pretty diverse cats in our class this year thank fawk,   "Hehe, it's kinda a failed experiment,An unexpected outcome maybe,Yeah it was super bassy,Pretty much accidentally made a plate reverb,Smashed some snare drums through it afterzz,What a rush,Sidechained it to the kik,Blissed out for dayze,Hey budolo how was your holidays? Did you make it to that class on Thursday?,Fuck yeah, Darrin Verhagen right? Did I miss anything crucial? Just screwing round with video and jazz. Hows your Sound and Vision Project going?,yeah fair call, got heaps on so been a bit slack w/schoolwork jsut wanted to guage where you were up to to see if I should get my ass in gear. I got me process down now just need to find some video material that fits my vague aesthetic vision. Trying to work on this research paper thing but not much info on what to actually do?? Need Direction,haha yeah real flakey,do you reckon we needa reference properly and bilbliography etc? Seems like yeah, we gotta pick an artwork and examine it in relation to its own historical period, the processes of creation and "theoretical concerns" which I assume means its conceptual basis? Then looks like we relate it to our own project. Couple of weeks ago Polly seemed to be spinning it as kind of a research project for our own Projects to help clarify the ideas we were thinking about. Like a research based extension of what we did in our proposal presentation? Thats as far as I've gotten,okay cool maybe I did know what I was doing just had to spew it out,lol,Always overthinking derg,Good to see ya the other day, we should get a caff soon for sho,So fucking great, they released a huge firmware update for it like the night that I got it which was a weird and awesome coincidence,Yeah he was like "where did aunty Lauren go?",So cute,Yeah my computer has left the studio now, beatstep synths and cassette tapes,I've regressed to the mid 80s now,Just needa get a flock of seagulls do and one of those ruffly pirate shirts,I ran is a pretty decent track actually,Synth pop dreams,Long time no see, hows it hanging? I am probably gunman come into officeworks some time and buy a laptop, I'm not sure if I want one of those shitty little ones cause of the sausage finger thing, but I am trying to go as cheap as humanly possible. I don't care about ram or whatever as long as it has a screen that I can read and shit. Just word processing and youtubing and crap I suppose. I saw this one in the officeworks catalogue which is apparently on clearance or something.    But if I have to go the netbook thing then I guess like,    I dunno maybe we can pull of some kind of price matching scam. Whaddya think?,Oh yeah? well I don't wanna put you out or anything. Have you sold any of those acer netbook things/do you have them at elsternwick? I was thinking I could have the netbook and then have an external monitor keyboard mouse setup (I got half that crap at home anyway) if I wanna have a bigger keyboard or anything. Its pretty cheap either way so if its gunna be hard or whatever don't stress it.,yeah thats true, yeah i plan to travel round a bit and crap, I've had both a desktop and a laptop before with the whole desktop monitor setup thing going and it was pretty good, you know, like portable when you want it and sort of tactile and keyboard it. I reckon I can cobble together the other stuff, thats not urgent anyway, rather spend a bit more maybe on the laptop and then buy the other stuff on some other time, but if you can get 20 percent off that kind of expands the budget. And it is the season for giving.,   two are a bit more, but the look a lot better.,Alright, well I think thats the one if I can get the discount, dick smith is asking 600 for it which makes it a pretty bargain. I wasnt sure about the Compaq anyway, seem to remember balding history teachers and shit using those. Barring the discount situation, then I'll just go for the old acer netbook I reckon.,Isn't that joint a stripclub?,well, at least we know william and matt will enjoy it, if they're coming.,,How ya doin?,no way i love adding my 2 cents, thats why I never have any money lolBAD!I always feel risky.,Frisky? I like the sound of that!,I'm pretty sure I am, last time I checked anyway,My mother first, and then Melbourne.,I'm a musician!,though I never get any crusts,I'm not really sure, Alternative kind of stuff mostly,well thats the thing, I don't know what I sound like yet, still developing and whatnot, so its easier to just put it in alternative for the moment.What did you get up to today?,You can have a job as my personal groupie anytime ;)Sure!bye!,you too, seeya later!,Hey man, what type is it and or what do you think is wrong with it?,Cool, well I can replace the switch, and that should fix the problem pretty easily. Wahs are pretty simple.,i dunno, maybe 30 bucks? I can meet you in the city if ya want, but i'm in brunswick.,Ok cool, well ill be round flinders st on Thursday at about 1:30, if thats alright for you,Btw my number is <number>,Woah, might have to add hedgehog cafe to our list of different themed cafes to visit! Reading through now,Fuck yeah, I'm psyched. We leave on friday!,This is awesome, love the deadpan commentary,was scouting for some ramen spots too, gunna bring large pants,Woah this is comprehensive af. Thanks for the info matey!,,Ooh yeah that might be great! Thanks heaps. Wanna check out the work flow and see if it fits.,That'd be great! What time is good for you? I'm close by so can come by whenever.,Cool, I'l see if I can get round tonight, otherwise will hit you up the weekend. Thanks heaps!,Hey bud, ya reckon you might be round sometime today? Can drop round and take a look \ude42,Haha, I do that all the time,Cool, not too far from my place actually. How bout round 12ish? I can message you on here when I'm close by,Cool, will smash you a text when I'm outside. BTW Thanks again, super nice of you to let me borrow your gear for a bit.,Uh oh, I reckon the screen might have gone bad on the 3200xl. Super dim, like unreadable.,Apparently super common with Akai Rack samplers. Based of some old flourescent LCD backlight tech or something which degrades over time. Looks fixable though.,Nah, tried it all the way left and right and turning backlight on and off, been having a go using my phone torch lol.,Oh nice. Yeah I think it just needs the electroluminescent panel replaced, which isn't even a solder job.,Haha no worries, at least I was borrowing and not buying. Yeah totally. I can bring it into RMIT if ya want, got class wednesday thursday friday.,Hey man, was wonderingif youw anted me to bring round that Sampler you were lending me sometime this week? Got an MPC1000 for all me sampling needs now!,Hey, no worries! I used it for a while with a lamp in front of it but then got my MPC like a week later so I stopped using it. 1000 has changed my life! Let me know when might be a good time to drop it round next week?,Oh hey there. My names Liam. Did you know I was just at your house??? Wierd!,Wired!,i think we met at that party where I vommed on your face, I was the one who had eaten all those beans!,hey man, I just tried to buy tickets to the Afterlife thing on the Saturday at Dark mofo, the club where total control and stuff are playing and it's sold out... Apparently though it says limited tickets will be avail on the door,Not really man, I started out by buying a bunch of resistors, caps and ics and pots and jacks. Then I built simple oscillators. Atari punk console, sequencer, stuff like that.  I got my first batch of tools and shit from futurlec.com.au. Takes about three weeks to arrive but cheap as shit. If you just get a breadboard, jumpers, jacks, potentimeters and a bunch of components and whatnot you can make something. Also take a look at sythrotek kits, they are pretty cheap and easy builds.,Nah, kits in general are pretty easy, just gotta make sure everything is in the right place.,Well.. Uhh thanks?I dunno what to say to that!///:o)?,You too tracey, And a good xmas tooand a happy new year and shit.Mad.,Hey I'm Liam, whats up?,well my mothers womb originally, then melbourne.how bout you?,,rightyo, I will dig her up later in my mind phonebook,Hey Cleggo how's it slamming? Hanging out in hoi an riding shitty bikes with no brakes n nearly getting killed by motorbikes. <Name> just got two silk dresses made for like fifty bucks each as a present. She looks like a cross between a vietnamese princess and a sweaty western tourist.  I took her out for a cruise in the perfume river at sunset or something.Been drinking heaps of beers and looking at pagodas and shit. Vietnam is kind of like a bastard child with ten possible fathers. Before hoi an we were in Saigon which was insane. Shot some guns at cu chi and saw a lot of people with missing limbs. What's going on in your neck of the woods? found a house yet? P.S your address is 19 Donald st right?,Totes yay? Does this mean I'll have to actually walk to get your place? Argh! That sounds fucking awesome, when do ya move in?,Who?,Are you seeing Francis bacon?,What? He went he he he,Fucking yeah, it was awesome, I liked the 50s and 60s shit the best, call  <name> a bastard for me. What the hell is everyone doing in Sydney?,Hey <Name>sorry my phone has run outta battery and our charger at home is broken hence me being somewhat incommunicado.If you read this I have a few questions.gotta give the lawnmower guy the 120 bucks that is in the envelope? and where is the old usb iphone cord thing that you had? is it in your room or kims or whatever?,YEAH,didnt you have one last time that we used?,alright cool, thatnks for the chips and shit. Ill stick roudn til they finish mowing and pay em, then ill clear out and put the keyu under the white king for ya,well I couldnt find it so it defineitely worked,har har,when do ya reckon you'll be home cause I gotta split in a bit.,lawn looks okay, it was a pretty big job. Not really sure what you wanted but the grassis cut at least.,Hey bud looks really good but am out of credit. I've decided is good.,i dunno yet, my timetable is still getting worked out as I had some back fees and an encumbrance placed on my account so I couldn't log in and see it and I dont get paid til next week.,ah no big deal, I shoulda paid it a while ago but I forgot about it.,so whats up. Sorry bout last night, I was at denny's place which has even worse reception than mine?,mine.,yeah man, sounds good. I am really broke til next week though...,and I don't really wanna have you pay cause there needs to be at least one person in the family that pays for their own shit,har har,well i spose somebody's gotta do it. How is malvern to get to from yr work?,or maybe we could do the city?,blargh,I guess relatively you are the shah of iran,argh,that sucks,dont worry,sounds annoying though,Lets hope so,Sure man, I don't have any credit or anything but if ya need someone to talk to you can always come round or something.,Yah, I got the flu or something so I dunno if I should be drinkin buy I'll Han out if ya want.,Yah sounds good bud.,i got like 2 bucks so its beer nuts and aspirin fo rme, you can come over if ya want, <Name> isnt here tonight,sure,   "No, thank you.,naw mate, not til the start of next month,No way mofo, still drudging away trying to pony up enough funds to get drunk for a month.,And climb mountains,UAH,UAH,allo,Nah mate, everything is BOOORING as shit round here. Just workin and saving for nz. What ya been uota?,COOL, HOWS SHE DOIN?,Cool Bananas,shit, i guess people are gettig to that age arent they,Is she still with that wierd looking guy,?,woaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh,NAW, NO time or inspiration,just workin and doing nothing,opposite, the conversations are so structured they lose a lot of meaning,maybe, I dunno. Hows your shit going,hey man, work with frivolous then,cool, kinda reminds me of this    "totally, obviously yours would be funnier,Yeah, its totally ironic,that the council is spending money on plast<Name>g fake shit all over the place rather than addressing their real problems,Hey Clergs hows it hangin? Gunna be in NZ obviously for Xmas so was thinking I could skypw tih you guys on xmas eve and have a brew widja. Are you still going over to mums on Xmas EVE? Are ya? Plz reply promptly, regards, Liam (Your brother),I will work out skype, pretty sure mum has it on her computer otherwise put it on yr ipad or whatever maybs we can facetime or some highly advanced technological shit like that. will message you tuesday and we will work out a time, I am 2 hours ahead of you so not too late please!!!,Cooool bananas man. Ttul bb,Hey kiddie pie. Having dinner ill Skype yer afters.,Get on the sky pes nowwww!!!!!!!!,Merry Christmas from Liam and fat girl  (<Name>) I have eaten so many meats my stomach is like a hot dog factory.,shaddap,wha?,youre such a trusted and respecatble member of society,fuck yeah, and you get work off right,they have to suck it man, unless they want some bailiff all up in their shit,pretty sure its illegal for them to penalize you for joury duty,thats so cool, are you allowed to discuss the case?,come onnnnnnnnn,just kidding,ok, is it an interesting case?,hmmm.... hang on, I'll just message you over my top secret encrypted network,EXTREME SECRECY ACTIVATED: HACKER SKILLS, NO 1... LIAM POWER IMPERMEABLE WALL OF CODE SET UP,so ya gunna come to <Name>s party tomorrow?,thats bullshit, thatd be so hard not to do,just wait for it to break in the newspapers or something and then post it on facebook,dang,well after sentencing im pretty sure you can talk about it,before that you have to allegedly talk about it,whityeah,shityeah,bring kim and shit if ya want,if you guys are one speaking terms or whatever,VENDETTA,how ya been anyways, havent seen ya in a couple of weeks,colour run?,a bike?,fuck yeah, im gunna get a bike for my bday,cool beans, ya gunna ride to <Name>s?,SCVEEEETTT,No skin off my nose,hey <Name>my phone just died so hopefully you see this, otherwise ill just show up at you place round 10,no big deal havent left home yet, ill be at yours in like 45 mins,will pick up some brews on the way,cool, yeah. illgivve him a call tonight.,Fuck yeah! Really good news!,better than last week.,going back to work and stuff helps,pretty resigned to the fact now, decision is pretty much made.,just thinking about logistics,yeah, just trying to get some cash together obvs,not sure when we're announcing, doubt itll be for a while,<Name>talked to me about you last night by the way,sooo cute,he;s all 'yeah i been spending a bit of time with <Name>',and im like 'no shit dude',cool bananas,sounds super fly,he seems pretty chuffed,which is good,well I dunno hes pretty hard to read but seems less like, quiet cause hes pissed at the world kind of thing,lately,id be down for gourmet dumping, when do you get off work I could meet you there?,nah thats cool we could go get dumplinggsss,Oh yeah, did ya pretend ya didn't know?,/what did she say?,Yeah, well. I dunno.,She seemed ambivalent to me. Which fits in pretty well with how I'm feeling.,Anyway, I'm going over Saturday for lunch or something? You're working?,Yeah, pop along if ya want.,Yah veil,Classic Fraser-PowerChiller,Maybe ill write a zone about being a 23 year old father, it'd sell like hot cakes with all this wierd traditionalism flying round.,Zine,Actually getting back into writing. Think all the time at home might help.,I wish, satyin in, ill seeya tomorrow though,Hey pop I'm at work then heading south side for a party. Whatcha doing?,heyoheyo,whats the ho,go,yeah yeah yeah, just me and <Name>being cool slamming tunes,yeah baby, just mixing some shit, made a new soundcloud for the band,sonding pretty DeHeCeHeNt,well ill link ya in abit,bt theres nothing like seeing it live,im pissed we have to wait two weeks now,im all PUMPED,hows shit with  you?,hahaha, you're putting on relationship weight,it happens to everybody,but usually they just take weight off their brain and bt it on the top of their head,so they get all top heavy,so then its possible for them to fall head over heels, LOLO,LOL <Name>,BRB Fag BRK,Oh NO I finally found someone who isnt all superficial1,I could, so was i,duh,yeah, she messaged me the other day,sounds awsome,thats so cool,go maw,Shit yeah, <Name> loves it too. We should do Greek. Ill get some beer or something.,Awesome, ill make ya a cup of tea.,So like 7?,or 7;30?,Yeah sure, we're gunna be at Brunswick rd cleaning and whatnot til like 5? Pi can come round after then.,by the way the place is a little bit half unpacked.,yeah! 1/79 Harding st coburg.,do it please!!!!,Plz plz plz!!! What did ya want me to get?,some haloumi?,olives?,yeah, but not extra virgin.,regular olive oil type.,Yeah man, just cracked a freshun the other day.,Taste sensation.,Had lunch with maw today.,yeah shore, you tell him!,Sure man, seeya then.,Hey bro,What's up?,You know it sista. What's you been up to?,Awesomeness.,So cool!,Job market fucking sucks at the moment.,I need a job too. Let's team up, double our experience.,Cleam returns!,Fuck that noise!,So has <Name>. You guys should hang out.,By the way Friday night birthday dinner for <name> at our place I was thinking?,Whendja get off on Friday? I was thinking like 7?,Sveltenhelten,Me too, I ate fifty square meters of kebab,What did you have,Dude slow down,Save some for the rest of us LOL,Meh, prolly stressed. Everyone is stressed.,At the moment,I think I'm gunna explode if I don't drink a beer  and listen to a tune in the next week. Feel like my whole life is run by forces beyond my control at the moment.,Probably for my own good,Plus I just feel dumber every day, it's killing me.,Yeah, you just get used to shot and time passes by and you realise you're kind of stuck,I can't write anything at the moment though, I'm all blocked.,No time, I'm working and cleaning and looking after <Name> all the time.,So don't mean to botch, just a bit fed up at the moment.,Bitch,Sorry,Yeah I hear ya, it's just a bit hard. I don't really feel inspired by my life.,Yeah but my life used to be more interesting. Don't hear many songs about unclogging toilets and paying internet bills.,I I guess I'll find out. Gotta bed. Work tomorrow .,Of course mate, if he wants to. I've still gotta confirm the reservation. Thinking 1:30 Saturday at hu tong.,Cool man, we getting coffee tomorrow or something?,Yeah mate, tomorrow at 1:30,YUMMERS!,I'm pretty popular,Well hopefully they start giving donations,pls its kidna funny that the only time anyone from our family notices anyone is when theyre having a baby,its like "Oh hey the crusty olf bloodline is being refreshed with some new humans",What defers?,Plers restrain,,Nah we started watching orange is the new black and foegot <Name> had chocmilk,,She painted her nailz","""""""" ",Boneless of the bone!??,",""""""""""""" "","""""""""""" "Wot u doin today?,Sweeeet mate,Cool!,Nice one,Your name in print is badass as!!,So good. Still got it!,Hey hows it going?,sorry. was at the shops,hell yeah, got a new job today!,Social Research centre, call centre where jackson works,guna juggle two jobs for a while and see how I go,I start wednesday, induction 10-3 then shift at roy morgan 5-9. Father life.,damn right, 18 hours in two days. Means I only have to work one weekend shift,I'll e ok, its only for two days. Next week ill work 5 days, 3 at SRC and two at roy morgs and I'll get some cash,need to make money for frankie's childhood,hows HK?,harass, so you are finally having a good time,DINGUS,saw ya did a portrait swap with some guy the other day,PRETTY COOL,Geez,Dirty bastards,Yeah it's fine no probalom.,Yeah he's fine he was just having a big development week last week and was all fussy.,He's snoring like a mad thing.,My asthma is clearing up. Kna kna,We have so much slag Bol,Spag,Yours is pretty good <Name>'s friends had bacon though. Kick it up a notch.,That'd be awesome. That makes your Bol better.,Good advice. I'll see what I can do.,Just did my last shift for the year. Come round next week! Holidays!,Or on Sunday.,woah, I just found my goal list from 2010. Check it out. I have done most of these by now,   "I like learn things from other people to use later, as if needed to say that,People just automatically do that in their life right?,Yeah, I think I was aware of that,I'm totally that person now though, it's really cool.,By the way I remixed some savage nobles stuff into a dub track last night. You should check it out.,I dunno, I needed to specify, and I hate people like that. I think I was afraid of being fake.,Haha,Yeah well I didn't want a man  to tie me down at that point.,Hey should get back on the 7th or 8th,Miss you too',\udbb8\udf34\udbb8\udf34\udbb8\udf34\udbb8\udf34\udbb8\udf34,\udbb8\udf39\udbb8\udf39\udbb8\udf39\udbb8\udf39\udbb8\udf39\udbb8\udf39\udbb8\udf39\udbb8\udf3d\udbb8\udf3d\udbb8\udf3d\udbb8\udf3d\udbb8\udf3d,\udbba\udf12\u2614\udbba\udd60\udbba\udd60\udbba\udd60\udbba\udd60\udbba\udd60\udbba\udd60,I'm heartbroken cause it rained and I want burgers.,Whatevs, you looked like ya had a blast at ye pool party. Probably just snowball hungover.,I saw that. Anyway, now is a time to let loose, I'm getting fat as well coz there is only fast food in Canberra.,Yep.,Gaha,She is so into young boys.,Why?,Pretty relaxed, didn't really do anything. Watched rupauls drag race. <Name> started screaming at 3 to 12 and didn't stop til 10 past so kind of missed it.,Yeah, he's been freaking out a bit. But we've got the grandparents up here to take the strain off us. And hes sleeping really well at night so easier to deal with.,There ya go, he sleping.,Sleping,Yeah, so I heard. Like 41 or something right?,It's been like 37 in Canberra. But they have the aircon on all the time here pretty much,Cool flannel is your friend.,Fan and ice cubes.,Oh geez.,Slow down betsy,Up and up and up!,Will check it oot tomorrowzzzzz,whooops just got dis,Pork pork,Hey whaddup how's it gahn,yeah fine, little sunburnt, just saw ya called the other night.,yeah, we'll be fine, i just gotta find a new job,yeah, mums coming over and we were going to go out for lunch cause <Name>s gotta study, we can meet you on sydney rd or something?,cool slammers, depending on <Name> might take him out for a bit longer today so that <Name> can get some good study done.,hm. I'll see how we go,   crap so existential,Sif we needed to Dennis a total camwhore,bbest!,   "Not much just at home broke and doing housework.,Whatcha up to?,That's what you get for trying to manage artists, I mean, organised artists? it's the most oxymoronical thing in the world,Nice one dreweeeeeeeeeeeeoeeeeepeeppeep,Har har, they probably just repurposed their time and funds to other equally profitable projects,Is actually pretty good, we get along pretty well nowadays. I just talked about her for most of the night.,I cbf doing anything today, going down to Canberra tomorrow and back to my real life. Around and do fuck all, and not be beholden to anybody for another day.,Nah, I gotta do housework and clean and pack n shit.,But I got all day to do that. I've barely moved today.,Nah. Had like 2 beers. Went really well though. Still got it!,I feel like I should  go out for lunch or something today, i've spent like no money.,Somewhere cheap that isn't falafel.,Like pho or something.,Or dumplings.,YES! Can we get coffee as well?,Ok cool, I'll hang this washing out and head over.,K see ya in an hour.,Got no credit. Probably be at yours in 25. See ya <name>!,You called <Name>.,my phone is lost forever.,not really, just left it at mary's place. Doing good, not much to report, pretty slow week.,how you doing?,sounds interesting... go on...,that would have been right up yer alley,what kinda shit woz there?,Meta comics,look pretty coool,funny apple thing,going for fag brb,thats really cool,infographics r the best,im learning,it is, not kidding,hence the comic journalism thing,<Name>? hes alright, doing better than last week,got less teethpain,went on a tour of daycare today, which was nice, so many cute babies, and their ethos is super up to date and col,thatd be cool, only if ya wanna,hell yeah, do it,yumburgers,when did ya wanna come round?,LAZY BASTARD,yeah sounds cool,see ya then loveykins,I woulda thought them creaking and sighing would have kept you up,   looks good,Actually looks perfect,Plus ya can come visit us!,This year!,ya still guna pop round today?,cool slammers,symbol of my life?,symbol for my life?,looks really cool though,Only if ya want to man, we can afford a cab no big deal,,yeah sure man, see ya soon,i gotta have a showe,yeah thatd be good, <Name> is really sick and cant do anything except lie in bed and im worried sick that <Name> might get it and die, also I dont feel too great and im all alone doing everything!,thas alright, together we might combine into a powerful human,Urgh, I'm sick too now, <Name> is also really sick. he's been crying all day and I feel like anus. <Name> still can't do anything. Gave him some panadol now he's sleeping a little better. Hasnt been eating much, in fact nobody is. Wish someone could come around and help today,nah, its alright we just lonely,Possibly, you might just be on the tail end of your thing though,Dont call my phone am using it for white noise with <Name> call <Name> or talk to me on here!,not being short was just getting my point through, how the heck were you meant to know?,yeah thatd be awesome,what time were you thinking?,sounds good man!,see ya soon,Dont worry, the fetival will be soon and then ya can move on,har har,whats up?,literally nothi,nothing,at all,pretty good, hows iyou doin?,Oh blah, im sure it went fin,is it online?,what program were you on?,hey, you'r backround is in arts management, and ya know, arts.,you just happen to be curating a comics festival,if they hadda asked you about roland barthes,exactly, its like asking the general manager of an H&M about their design philosophy,they arent gunna know fuckign everything,who the hell would expect hem to?,yeah aexactly,im sure that the 4 people lsitening were very informed,dont sweat the small stuff baby,You had an off day, so what? You've been ding heaps of shit for this festival, you should give yourself a break,So what?,Just dropped off <Name> at mary's place, chillin at home, housework, electronic shit,that good to hear, but you know, art is subjective, as such its really hard to just 'get it' there are so many different interpretations possible for just one piece,nice one, did jami get back to you?,Awkward tea huh, hows jeremy doing?,he is a vulnerable teenager,hey what are you up tomorrow? got <Name> for the day, wanna get lunch or something?,oh dats cool, ill just go op shopiing with him or sommat,maybe? not sure, when/where,the snug,at 6,maybe? I'll ask <Name>,Oh then we cant,LOL,jks,g2g <Name> is fussin,G@G,Why?,Festival stuff?,is the exhibition launch on tonight?,dont worry buddy, after this weekend you'll have a break,Giving <Name> some food at the moment, brb,yeah sure lost my phone though,Haha dark,hey cleegs are you working tomorrow? Me and <Name> might come by on pt if ya want,yeah man! what time would be good?,cool slambergers, well ill check whats up with the buses etc,Phone was downstairs with <Name>!,thats ok he was pretty asleep,thats cool, I reckon ill get the tram down lygies then the bus down arthurton road,yeah totally, eople bring prams ont he bus all the time,Whaddya mean I guess,yeah, it shoudl be too bad in the middle of the day, and they do have special areas or the pram to go,how ya feeling?,wanna get dumplings tomorrow? how long do ya get for lunch,plus we can just hang with ya,That sound awesome. I'll probably show up round 1,<Name> might gimme a lift as well.,I might actaully be a little later than I thought, <Name> drove off with the pram so gotta sort out hat and <Name> just fell asleep,I guess you're there til 6 so theres no time limit right?,stave off the hunger wolves,haha, ill help ya out when i get there,That's cool man, me and <Name> had a blast. That burger was so good.,I wanna make a super rare burger,We should cook burgers for lunch one day,And like go to the butchers and get some blade steak minced,And get pickles and mustard,Fuck yes,Actually should do that,We should buy some brioche buns,   "Nah we can get shitty mustard from woollies,I think the important thing is getting good meat,If it doesn't have pickles, it's not a burger,Kraft singlezzzzz,Get Netflix,Read a book,Draw,Go eat,Make food,Go for a walk,Rearrange shit,Sing,Dance,Do all other things,Got psych appt, on me way over there now.,,Accidentally,Thanks dudie hopefully we gel,I'm just freaked coz I haven't got my mental health care plan sent over yet, I can't afford for them to charge me,Yeah the nurse who had been sick all week is busy. I assume they just have to fax over the plan right? Or do I need to pick it up.,I've called every day this week ad twice this morning!,Yeah, my appointment is at 2;15 so I'm kinda screwed.,Naw she's not on today,I'll just go into summit on my way,Just waiting for <Name> to leave so I can leave, she's going shopping today. I'm pretty stressed out about this.,Yeah,Nah were waiting for her mum to show up.,Yeah I just ended up cancelling the appointment and rescheduling,hey clergs do you still have that old all in one printer with scanner we had at caulfield? Need it for artworks for ep cover,Thats cool I just need to use the scanner part,Oh, no set ime, was just wonderingya still had it,maybe we could have an art day next week or soemthing,what days you got free?,buttholes, I'm working friday saturday,wednesday <Name> is at uni,Awe wee,Woah. I'm pinching myself.,aww, go for a walk? get a coffee somewhere? You can come round if you want, im just gunna be hanging round doing housework and stuff,go get youself some nive soup,its just getting sick, it wears you down,read a book or something,we havent had internet here for the last few days and its been good for my mental health,Heyo bro bro, looks like we're all going to footscray tomorrow,we should go to 8 bit,so good,did ya call mum yet?,cool slammers, ill see whether <Name> is up to driving over. But otherwise you can come over and we'll get the train with franco,Yeah man I called her. Ya should call her too maybe when ya get home.,OK. SEE YA SOOn,whoops caps,Don't stress. She is totally ok. She'll work it out.,Noice,whasup?,she'll be right mate,do some drawing,brb <Name> stuff,Hhhhhhhh,i meant tomorrow afternoon but im looking after <Name> too todday,yeah if ya wanna","" "Can't do 20th June coz that's my gig.,So maybe weekend after?,Hellyes,Aww shit,Theres heaps of competition,Ah, you'll be right, you went above and beyond anyway, and they'll appreciate the effort you put in,not much MMAAAANN just hanging with <Name>, <Name>s at the library studying,what you been up to?,sounds FUN,yeah I'm jsut tryin to get through the day,yeah, just worn out, <Name>'s had exams and assignments due for the past couple of weeks,if ya wanna?,heckyeah,be good to see ya!,yeah goforit,takig <Name> over to marys around 2,Sickass,Yes! You werkin Friday?,Niiiiiiiiice, come round Friday lunchtime then. Maybe we can have more dumplings??? I'll do some writing or something.,And we can hang wif <Name>!,   "Facefacefacefaceface,I'm sick as fuck,UGH,<Name> let me have a nap. Resting up trying to get better by tomorrow.,what a dude!,hes turning into such a little man,actually kinda looking forward to next weekend,go hang in the country and get some fresh air and get outta town for a bit,thang out with <Name> in the paddoc,yeah yeah, shoudl give them a ring this week,so can <Name> borrow your car while we're away,I bet <Name> will have a b;asst,blast,nice one, did she lost her hair,Nighto! come round during the week if ya want!,Hey cleegs turns out <Name> is gunna be hanging out at the hospital like all day tomorrow an I'm still a little poorly and have to look after Francis tomorrow, are you doing squishyface stuff or do ya reckon ya could come round and we can have some lad hangs?,ok thats cool,actually dont stress too much, pretty sure mary is sposed to be taking him tomorrow so nbd",  "Oh you poor bastard having to work.,So strong though!,yeah, THE BEARDED LADY!",""" "I had toast for dins:(,Gourmet hotdogs tomorrow night!!!!! Pickles and sauerkraut and ill fry something!,Alright, bit burnt out, ben a big couple of weeks since <Name> got back. And <Name> is going through a particulalry difficult phase right now. Kinda freaking out about my first solo show saturday,Need to rehearse my list but dont have any time to do it in,nothing, just starting tantrums, but without being able to understand right from wrong,he doesnt understand the difference between when he needs something and wants something, so when we take something dangerous away from him he throws a giant tantrum, because he thinks that he needs it.,At   <name>'s place, so not that much pressure,just gotta get everything ready,Oh yeah sorry, how you doing?,Sppoooohky,Yeah man come over! I might be at rehearsal, but im sure <Name> would appreciate the help, 2:30 might be better though?,Looking good babe!,Going to acmi to see the bowie exhibition tomorrow!!! Back to back playing space oddity, ziggy stardust, cygnet committee on repeat. Wanna come?,buttholes! WE are gong earlier cause we gotta be outta the house. We're going at 11:30,you gotta book in a time,soz matey!,bit late notice anyway, we nly decided tonight,WAAAA,we gunna see ya tomorrow maybe?,I got 7,dang,That looks awesome! when were ya thinking of going?,Buttholes, yeah, you gota check on satudary at 5,oh yeah, cool slamms, ill defs go with you, <Name> said thats ok, but I need give her a night off at some point, a tit for a tat,and all of that that,AWWWW BUTTS,Greco sex scenes are enough to make anyone wanna get together, even with a wierd old man,Hey soz phone was outta batts, were you trying to get in contact with me?,YES!,I'm feeling really good, released my solo EP today!! and got a gig lined up. Had a talk withmum on monday, and me and <Name> are good.,Fuck ues!,Gunna do a tape release too I reckon,but on the cheap cheap,Thanks dudeson! Still got another track to add, but pretty low key release. Might try an gig some more before I make a big deal about a release.,What time ya thinkin of coming round tomorrow?,We should go get lunch or coffee or something.,Hellyes!,Didn't you already have it done? Or like the shading and stuff.,Wanna see!,Siiiick,It looks ace! You're on like a new level of complexity with the shading,Squish face is influencing you in a really good way.,Love the casual bleakness too,Well you get guilty if ya don't coz you're constantly measuring yourself against your peers,Yeah, that sticker was like a Rothko,We seem to have actually synced up in a prolific period.,hey clergs what size are your feet?,   Does that mean youd be size 7?,blundstone size 7,or size 8, coz it says size 8 is womens 11, and size 7 is womens 10, but size 8 is euro 42?,cool, so err on the side of 8?,hey by the way next time you're over can you bring that bottle I think we left at your place?,dang, where it be?,maybe,what  a dickknob,andyways francy calls,NH I found that one. Mist be somewhere weird like the car.,Fuck yeah! What time?,Cool slamzorx,Wven cx   \u017e ;0kkimxxcB,That's like the perfect job for you, pa and in the arts sector. Go for it!,Get Sarah to write a letter,Ps what time did ya wanna meet up?,Cools!,Lets get a beer or summat afters.,U no ne hot spots in da CBd,?,I jsr moved from Poland,hell yeah!,what was your favourite bit?,the costumes?,   "Got their album will give ya a USB next time.,That song is my fave though.. So far...,yeah,yespls, ya feeling better?,Dats cool bro,hey <Name>trying to call you back but have no credit,got my phone on me so gimme a call if ya want,Soz, maybe give it 10 more, <Name> is being ornery as fuck. Won't go down.,Hey don't stress about that lift ill just public transport it borrowing another dudes amp.,Oh well, just smash it home. Pretend you are drawing at home.,Roll with it, it's damn good exposure.,So it was not all in vain eh?,We smashed it, best gig we've ever played by far. Everybody Loved it, accolades galore.,You'll see the next one, we are getting pretty good now,was an awesome night,love not being sick,haha,poor thing,Fuck muscles,Buttholes,OH NO <Name> NEARLY GRABBED MY COFFEEE ARGH,HE WANTS IT BAD TOO HOT FOR BABIES,ALL GOO DNOW!,DDDY NEED BIG NIGHT LAST NIGHT,I usually dont break it out til at least,3pm..,looking st it noe,pretty good,hey im playing a solo show on the 9th at the tote did ya wanna come round and look after <Name> or something that night so <Name> can go?,You da bossman,you psyched for your bday this week?,Awesome! It looks like the girl behind you is drawing you, and you are drawing someone else in front of you in some sort of ever ending Escher centipede of geekiness.,Mum thinks your lame, but she is a lame, so you can't trust a lanes view of what is lame.,Yeah he even eats cardboard boxes and old bits of dirty button.,Flush it down!,Woah, savage nobles got a huge show coming up. Just booked us to play the ballroom hootenanny in thornbury. Bunch of really good bands playing,   "Fuck yes, its like two minutes from your house,Played our best ever show on saturday night, im booked for 3 gigs in september! one next weekend solo, one on the 9th solo, and one on the 19th with savnobs.,Finally doing something with music!,Going on the radio and releasing a tape in october,fuck yes!,What the fuck, is my luck changing?,So chuffed,I'm wierdly ambitious now,All I needed was like, one little minute piece of success, and the gigs and shit come rolling in,its the balls,Hey cleaaa can I send ya my personal VTAC statement to see if it FLOOWWS,   "nah take a look at our leisure, due 30th september,   "Like the profile pic! Excited for dinner tomoz.,   "Experiments in chroma key gone MAD,Yeah, couldnt do that coz I needed to shoot it against a white wall, which meant the only angle I could really do was up,Its not sposed to be really amazing, its just a kinda conceptual statement of purpose or something,Don't really have that many choices with camera angles etc though, which sucks. But ya know, I have like 2 fans, and they are my mum and my sister, so they're pretty forgiving,I've seen way worse video clips,at least I have some kind of concept,even if it is the gratuitious use of effects to conceal a lack of talent,Yeah whooops, went a bit far there,should probably eat or sleep or something,I was super proud of it, and then the first tiny bit of criticism made me turn on it, what the hell?,We are CHANGING BODIES,yeah I dunno, I should wok on that,You understand my crushing self doubt is flared up even my the most minute criticisms,What do you do about it?,Yeah man, just to say hat you shoudl probably take <Name> outta the house, like to mums or something if ya can cause we'll be rushing round like crazy all day and we don't wanna have to worry about him. Plus kinda dangerous,<Name> and <Name>storyline continues,I have a feeling tomorrow isnt going to be as stressful as I first anticipated,We're just taking it easy,w e got removalists coming for the big stuff, so we will just pick up boxes and put them down and then fall asleep in our new house,I fucking love the place!!,its so great!!!,Oh yeah, nah my gig was on sunday so no bigglesworthies, me and <Name> have stuff we needa do at harding st though today, so if you were free in the afternoon at some point maybe we could bring <Name> round for a little bit?,yes yes yes yes yes yes, I got rehearsal at 5:30, might get picked up though,Not sure, <Name> is at work til 8:30,  got rehearsal at 5:30-11ish, I guess it  would be a thousand times easier if ya came over here next wednesday night.,I'm talkign abut next wednesday by the way if you can do it,hey cleeeeeeeegs, whats the happo? ya still thinking about comin over today or did I dream that?,Hell yes!,I love swiry eyes,swirly,Wha?,Buttholes, and I bet she was all "The lord works in mysterious ways" and was turning the other cheek and whatnot, while you were trying to fix all the broken stuff,Hows your arm,Mite get sick street creds,Oh butts. Almost forgot. Lets do a roast. Talk about it later!!!!,What about a present?????,Wanna do it at my place? I can cook!!,Sounds good. I'll do a roast something.,Ooh yeah made it onto the thousands, what a rush**** SARCASM,Nah just kidding, pretty cool actually,Oh yeah, she went nuts?,uh oh,hell yeah, whens moving day?,boss. ya gunna need a hand?,Why?,Youll be fine matey!,Hey clrgs whassusuuuppp,what a locely day for a drive eh?,if you were feeling generous you could even drive your poor brother to the gig.,You called <Name>.,Yeah soz beet outta batts for a while and a bit sick. Whats up?,OJ, codral and some baby advil. I'll transfer ya some casholllla,And chicken soup!!!! In a pouch!!!,And some sort of snack! Will bank transfer you cash if ya want. Didn't think you was coming lawl,Netflix time is not wasted time.,Like you need more storage,They look boss. Very 40s.,Slacks are cool,<Name>: aww cute I want slacks,Where are you up to?,So fucked. And <Name> is all sincere for like a minute.,Yeah sure dudey, heres what I got so far,Its something   <name> did, I am so sick of pretending to have aesthetic sense,just want someone else to do it for me,No I wouldn't! Actually past caring, how the fuck can I jusdge someone elses stuff when I can't even make my own,I'm so sick of trying to be creative,I feel sick as fuck, my life is suburban and boring, my bandmates are chronically depressed, and I am becoming disillusioned with everything","" "I dunno about different sized writing, I hate the politics, to me its kind of like, we're at the top and you read left to write, there is enough implied hierarchy in the ord<Name>g of the acts on the page,*right","" "realised I needa tell people when to show up,sper rough though, will probably realign text,yeah, I think its almost done,dont think I should worry about it that much,Cool, have a good day tomorrow,Go for it!,Awesome,I really like it. Its subtle,Which is a surprise coming from you,JKS,Yeah, this is no Human Tornado,I'm into it, what are you thinking formatting wise for the zine?,Yeah cause the human tornadoes are more self contained,I'll deal with reality tomorrow?,that or canberra backpackers? or flu season?,I dunno,K. are you handwriting captions,Yeah good call,let them work it out,haha,  quality over quantity?,self flaggelating,looks awesome!,COOOL! love the dark shading,whatcha up today? if ya need a hand <Name> is at daycare,Fuck Yes!!!!!!,howd it turn out?,wa? send pix,Thanks bruv. Made me wanna mek my own zine,hurry up and illustrate the professor for me!,Yeah,She's just frustrated coz her girlfriends are coming round at some point for lunch an she wants the place to look nice.,Fuck yes!,So excited,how much are ya gunna charge?,Charge $3,Noice,Fuck yeah! Good job.,soz my phone ran outta batts,gotta do some dishes anyways,dascool,Thats cool, I've been real down too, so just surviving the last couple of days. Interview went fine. Didnt sound like too much of an asshole. Its half an hour into the monday homebrew show if ya wanna listen,nice,Possibly, I think <Name> is gunna be working on her assignment so not sure ill ask,Pipe it thru the interwebs,nah i got it yum as,oops vomited.. watch oout,harhar,si manolo,<Name> wants burgers tonight!,But shes studying all night so wants you to come round here,Fuck yeah. Zines!,Breaking even is good.,Ellyes! Be goo to see ya.,The two things go together like hot dogs and sorrow, or whisky and regret.,With that band you're starting with kat? Lemme know if ya need any beats/arrangements,yes!,I'll give it a shot,There ya go, ya drangus,just wait a couple of days,haha. Ok. So keep an eye on the mail,car still leaking?,Hell yes!,Woah.,Want me to download some movies? Also we should get takeout or cook something,I'm down!,I'll download rashomon and that tarkovsky film.,nice,Might have to do a second [rint run at this rate,Cools. I'll see ya then then.,yeah, slept for like 12 hours and felt better. Been feeling a bit nauseous and wrong.,Me too. <Name> had food poisoning last night and was vomiting all night. No sleep and really touch and go. Was about to take him to hospital when he recovered a bit. He's okay now but he got really dehydrated last night and was really lethargic and sad. Probably got about 4 hours sleep. So drained.,He had some trifle that had cherries in it which he's never had. Helen got sick too so musts just been dodge,Dodge as mate.,Also  <name> is totally on board for us to make a comic about his life,I'm gun write some stories up for him next time I see him,Rad as,Then pull em out,HER HER,I'mDABEST,Plug gig to your mates,Gunna make a promotional vidd on thursday night for gig,NEED TO GET PEOPLE ALONG,ON TUESDAY,NEED THIS TO GO WELL OR I WILL HAVE BREAKDOWN,Obscure and loved by those that know me,So mysterious,damn chair,DONT TAKE SHIT FROM THAT POINDEXtER,sweeeet,was just kidding about that poindexter comment,seems cool, must be pretty wierd having a baby round I guess,Yeah man, hes fine,Dude, it totally could have gone a lot worse,freaked me out,but hes fine, and that kinda shit happens all the time, so ya just gotta be happy it didnt this time,Thanks for coming last night bruv.,I saw that,I had the best time, spitting on cuntz,moving round heaps,glad we headlines,whatcha up to today?,GETBED,Where ya going?,fuck that,poor thing,well I got the day off so lemme know if ya wanna get coffee on syds or something later,all DAYZ,He was in a shit mood all night,dont think it was personal,he was pissy about having to get up and go to paradise in the morning,he totally offered to drive,I was like "So I'm gunna uber there and leave my shit at the tote and pick it up tomorrow so if you can sort yourself out ya dont needa drive" and he's all "Nah I'll just drive",SO HE CAN GET STUFFIED,AHA, really?,cray,He was in abitchy mood, he was bitching about having to put his jacket on coz it was too cold inside, but having to take it off cause it was warm inside,and I was like, thats how clothes work bruv,yeah exactly, oh well, its less noticable on stage when <Name>is in a bad mood than when I am having a depressive episode,and I was charged like a motorola razr,wasnt even that pissed,what a blast,I even did some jumps,absurd banter on point. Need to bring that shit to my solo shows,"EVERYONE'S AGES, RIGHT NOW",??????,haha, I was kidding,just trying to make people slightly uncomfortable,didnt want anyone to sit down,yeah dick,gloria was heaps of fun.,Its infectious,That's the fun part,It's infectious,I know, it was wierd to see him outside of a squishface context,did he have a good time?,Meh thats cool I been there,thats awesome, he seems super nice,felt bad coz I said Hi then had to run off and do band stuff,NOICE,Woah,cool,Awww. Poor bastard, what is it?,have some codeine and lie in bed,FUN,GOOD MAMA,Hey clews do ya still have free tickets for the nova? We were gunna go see on the waterfront,Yasure? That'd be super awesome,OUR SANITY THANKS U,How ya feeling by the way?,Ya any yet Elliot or someone to help ye?,tht was illegible as,Nice,Dude just wait too yore of sound mind,Where ya at?,FUCKDAT,yeah good call,!!!,SAHGUD,YESGAWD,WANT FOR XMAS GUNNA SAVE UP\   "HAHA,great,Meh, I like it,dont be so hard on yourself,if ya got it past them anal poindexters at squishface, it probably means its palatable,I KNOW,WANT WANT WANt,kidding about those dudes, just got jealous as fuck when they were quietly and seriously working for long periods of time, and I can't ever do that.,fair call,I know that, I'm just envoius of other peoples lives all the fucking time at the moment, think I'm jsut sick of having to fucking sit around with a baby and do housework all day everyday,its boring as shit and making me dumb,Yeah, just 17 more years. I just wanna be selfish, and spend money on shit other than lawnmowers and vaccuum cleaners and stop surrounding myself with shit and laying down all of my values because they are untenable, and living this weird incongruous life with one foot in either camp, trying to be creative when I haven't had inspiration in months. So sick of being depressed and it being so hard and neverending, dreaming of getting the fuck away from everything.,Resentment and bitterness is about all that gets me through the day sometime,You're right, I just gotta ACTUALLY book an appointment,FUCK,I'm so shit at doing shit that needs doing. I've just been obsessing about house shit to try and put it off.,FUCKOF,I'm not depressed all the time at the moment though, I have good days and bad days,Well theres not a lot else to think about,Gross,Our lives suck sometimes,   "Thanks for giving us tix for the movies by the way,you're a boss,Are we having Xmas at yours?,you cool widdat?,sweat,wha?,that kid dancing to wire?,pastichey,thats what I want <Name> to be like,YES! printing covers tomorrow and should have a few by then. Hopefully everything goes alright. ot me stanley knife and ruler ready,YEAH baby fruit of me labours,me and <Name>gunna have a print and cut sesh,no <Name>should be goooooood,NOICE,Just about dens xmas pressie, ende dup getting him a hot plate from kmart, we can either go halvies or you can buy him some utensils,coolos, mum was gunna give him some stuff,Awesome. <Name> is still sleeping so no rush. Thanks so much. Got the car seat and packing the nappy bag now.,YAY!,Steal champas and have a party on the walk in,You're the help, shoulda stolen the silverware while smiling a the drunk aristocrats,Yeah thanks heaps for that. He's way better today,He's alright, <Name> is at work from 8;30 TO 9:30 TODAY so we hanging,Bullshitty. She's working 8:30 to 4:30 then coming home and getting changed and going to some compulsory work thing. Gotta dress up too. Poor thing. Same thing tomorrow too. Then we gotta house inspection on Friday. So pretty intense at our place at the moment.,I dunno, in the morning I think,Thatd be awesome!!! You don't needs help clean but just come hang if ya want.,Also I think I do have your Myki. I'll take a look tomorrow.,I've got your phone you left it in the uber. Can drop it off today.,Last night was fucked. You shouldn't drink like that on anti depressants. I'm worried about you. You needs get to therapy ASAP,It's really dangerous to drink that much on anti depressants. Because you're emotionally detached you can really easily get to a place where you hurt yourself.  They're not gunna work without therapy.,Yeah but it's been a year and objectively it was a normal breakup. <Name>was an asshole but you need to let go.,That's cool. Well I've got your phone so I can put it in the letterbox or something when we drive past later.,Nahat the movies. Come by later.,Oh my god!,Christian Bale or Patrick Bateman or Norman Bates?,So fucked.,It's cool I kinda got it.,Bullshit,Watching Jessica jones.,She's totally targeted at your demo,Dude yessss!!!!,Looks so good,Good amount of likes!,Fuckyes! Good strike rate!,Whups! Pretty sure I got a spare somewhere.,RISO MATE,Fucking ace,So cool!,SO MANY LIKES,Turned out pretty well,Awww,so glad you are into them,take that officeworks,SICKAS,are you collating?,SICK,Youll smash it,dik,gotta pick up <Name> at 9 from aeroport,aeroport,trying not to nap,nah cant buy trains at station just use them,dascool,NEED HAIRCUT,COOL, TITE PANTS ROMANCE,MAYBE I GET SUIT FOR FREE,More like this guy,Yeah, got heaps done today, know it doesn seem like it, but I got a way better idea of what I want,NEXT TIME,Plus that fucking ramen,need more ramen,   "yeah, its actually pretty easy to let someone make it for you, like pho,YUMMO,actually pretty easy to make,Japanese gravy,Lets do it! so easy,They're like walking balls of mucus and germ spores.,Good one dude!!,Yeah, well I know that you think about stuff that people have said for ages afterwards, which is actually beneficial sometimes! Good to have a safety net to catch ya if you are spiralling into an endless abyss.,SICK AS,me and <Name> are quitting smoking,on day 2,not too bad but we are in seperate rooms coz of fighting,Saving heaps of money,but really want a fag,duh,yeah they suck asses,gunna have biscuit and coffee instead,Gunna do the dishes,Austerity measures,Folded and labelled 25 tapes today. Got a tape for you and peter next time I see ya, that is if you got 5 bucks,Yeah come round <Name> izz working need someone to distract me from FAGZZ,Woah crazy! I'll see what franny feels like doing?,He has some projex on the go, for instance putting things in cuss,cups,getting up to stand and wanting uppies.,cray kid.,I NEED FAGZ,I WOULD SMOKE A BUTT CIGGARETTE RIGHT NOW,OK FINE,puts fist in my mouth,bites my shirt buttons when wearing button down,tries to drink from cups badly,goes insane when high fived,wont let you eat without partaking,yeah, if you high five him he gets so happy his face contorts and he jumps up and down for like 10 minutes,nah, keeping busy today, I cleaned the entire house, labelled all savnobs tapes, created bonus content for tape buyers, made a drumpad, baked cookies, cut <Name>s hair, made burgers, made coffee, organised studio, untangled cables etc.,so full of mani energy,manic,???? Pullable?,I seem to remember medium,kidn of, I rememebr her having prison guard hair for a while,like short and spik,spiked,Yeah, draw her with short hair if ya want, but noone realy cares, and there is this thing called artistic licence,Meh, you'll swing it,large and in chare,charge,I made cookies,and burgers, so I'm not far behind you,lets get really really really fat,like not just a bit fat, like obese,na people love fatties,theyre were awesome,I ate them all,need oto chew,liek a cow,jskafdjhjsfdahuifehuef,jhefhuefhuef,   "way ahead of ya,extreme duuude,sick as! you bringing out something new?,Siksiksik,Nah, dark is good. Truthful exposition of events,Noice,was he angling for free cakes?,woah, not even angling for free cakes,Oh yeah, cause I work at a service station I can totally fix your car,I work at a travel agents and have been to every country in the world,so naive,nice one,I'm pretty sure thats how warren buffet got started, you're just being enterprising,if people didnt take advantage of the networking oppurtunities provided to them at work, we wouldn't even have an economy or iphones or a space program,oh yeah? What was she up to?,haha, that is so  <name>, eating soup. Classic her.,man, way to make it awks,yeah, you dont have any obligation to say hi to her,She already knows that much about you,Pretty Blunt.. check out this album, its like early 70s underground gay disco funk punk, its so great,niche as,super catchy though,my fave is strong love\\,totall,der,into it","" "great line,It's awesome and truthful though. And it will resonate with a lot of people.,Keep doing it man, it will be cathartic when you've finished.,Wanna come to the zoo with me and <Name> tomorrow?,Oh yeah, when's that start?,Dang,yeah sure! lets make lunch or something,Yeah cool, but shes gotta be discreet about having fags coz we're quitting.,CUTE,I want fags, lets pine together,I'm down to walk, I don't have the time or energy for strenuous exercise,that sounds fun actually,night walk,   "Sounds cool actually, better than the burbs of pascoe vale,YAH!,Looks pretty sweet. I reckon ya should send one through,Dude, have you gone on blahtherapy? I'm so addicted to it.,Venting over anonymous chat,So far today I had a unsatisfied gf, a suicidal teen, a domestic violence case, and a girl that thought she was unlovable,You can either listen and try to help people with their problems, or vent your problems at someone,its the best,   "Its actually the best, I felt like shit today, and I feel great now.,Dude, I actually love it,Its the best site ive found in ages,Into the heart of darkness?,what was that facey post I saw of someone being all like "<Name>is so brave",Carina Quill,thats right,super into franno,did you check out that site?,Its anonymous dude.,And what happened?,You aren't giving advice, you are just being someone to talk to.,I gave heaps of really good advice today,But you should be a venter first,Ivented for like an hour before I did some listening,Now I'm pro listener, pretty much told some 18 year old how to be an adult just then,talked some young girl into seeking professional help cause of domestic violence in her house,convinces some girl that she wasnt unlovable,I'm so into these stories man, its killing me.,Its like I get to step into people's fucked up lives and get a glimpse of shit I would normally never see.,Me and some girl ruminated on society's unrealistic expectations of happiness,,then go on and vent! seriously, its so liberating.,Why did you even choose listener, ya dummy,Bipolat is heinous,people's lives are fucked.,being a young person sucks nowadays,Hey man, I was just saying try it. But if you are cool, then don't stress. It totally works for me.,I feel mature, well adjusted, and in control of my problems since 6:34pm,Yeah, but I set that shit in stone today. Guiding people, using my ample experience of the fucked up things people do to each other to my advantage.,I was like, oh, question about fucked parents, shitty relationships, growing up, domestic abuse, substance abuse, addiction, narcissitic tendencies, living with mental illness, coping mechanisms, loneliness? Let me help you.,not to mention, self harm, spiralling thoughts, self loathing, suicidal ideation, anxiety attacks, feelings of failure, betrayal by partners,The list goes on, we've been through an amazing amount of shit,oh yeah, poverty, eviction, bureaucratic adversity, fired from jobs, resentment, bitterness,Pretty much all that stuff is just me in the last 6 years.,It really puts my shit into perspective.,I've pretty much had every shit thing happen to me in some form,and I continue to live,I'm like 24 and I feel like 40. In a good way,Hey now, thats enough. I'm still a bit of an asshole.,Storing it away for future arguments,yeah, good call. I felt a bit wierd at first, but you can just discnnect if something gets too heavy,This one was different though, it was super grey area,anyway, its cathartic to help someone who is in it, rather than dwell on it. Its repurposing a shitty experience into something that can be used to help other people.,That she get a third party involved,she lived in fiji, so there was like, a real lack of counsellors and professionals to deal with this kind of stuff,it was a one time incident, the father hit the mother, they have a two month old with colic and they were all really stressed out and the father went off the handle.,I told her that its never ok for a man to hit a woman, even if it is her dad and he's normally a nice guy, once someone crosses that boundary they an easily do it again.,her mother forgave him for it, and everything kinda returned to normal in the house. But I think she needs to talk to a counsellor about it, and maybe get something in record in case it happens again,on the,record,Anyway, sorry if that was a trigger thing,Thats what I thought. I suggested like a someone at school, or like a trusted adult of no relation to the family.,she was like 17,still in school,It was really tricky,she agreed with me though,super smart kid, and really self aware.,it probably will, really did sounds like a one off occurrence. He has no history of doing that, and slapped her once and then stopped.,totally, I'm pretty sure that stuff is more okay in fiji,I know aht its like having a young kid ike that, it sends you up the fucking wall, I nearly snappe da few times.,not to that extent though,Its insanely hard.,like, the hardest thing I've ever done hard,but whatevs, those days have passed,pooing by themselves sis a real plus,Yeah, was just a real cakewalk,he did it with his eyes closed,know that anus like the back of me hand,yeah, its not really a human til like, 3 weeks old,til it opens its damn eyes,Nothing to see here, just my inability to do farts,and my constant need of a boob,and my fucked sleep schedule,crusty ass eyes, shorts made of poo. Wierd hair on skin.,he hated everything,now he just hates being on his back cause it reminds him being a shit little baby that couldnt o anything,now hes ripping through phonebooks and charging through walls with his muscled body,He's annoying as shit at the moment, such a gojira baby,needs to destroy,He literally tore up his entire mat, its like 150 pieces, and I had to put it back together and he kept pulling it apart while I did,then I taught him to pat it down to fix it, and he helped like a champ and was daddy's helper so it turned ou tok,it was super cute he was so guilty,so he just rips it to shreds,so intense,was I grandma, thanks. I bet things were different when you were young,better have fun while ya can matey,then realise shit was broken,I gotta sleep brah,will I see ya tomorrow? guna be a scorcher,cool man, christobel will be here too, she about to leave for denmark and would probably like to see ya,lqter hater,2016 <Name>blowing up,slow down branson?,yeah man, go nuts.,yeah totes, bring sum beers maybe?,Haha, so tiny. Looks good bruv,Yaya!,Was actually a reaction to a similar post <Name>did, which didn't even acknowledge me or Denny, just bragged about the shit he'd done. So I was kinda taking the piss out of his selfishness.,nm brarg, jus surviiving heat and hangin with fran. We got our wedding invitiations and ordered out rings! we gotta get onto this suit thing mannn,yeah but I gotta like, find the suit I want then wait for him to come down and pretend that I love it and that it is the perfect one and then he'll part banroll it probably,bankroll,Im free tomorrow and got to get outta the house. Wanna get cawfee?,Made it seem jaunty as. Like, "call me later?",Jaunty as,I got a new fone,Its sick as,Nah. An actual new fone, bought it outright like a champ.,Was 100 bucks,On it now,Its kinda hard to keep the wire taut. Keeps dropping out.,???,<name> at Xmas,I didn't see that!,Think you showed <Name>,Link me on fone,Eating ice cream,Haha, so good,He can be funny in a really oblivious way.,I dont think he is completely oblivious, hes just pretty easy going sometimes.,So i gotta be outta the house by 11ish tomorrow, wanna get cawfee?,Woah. Just got this. What did ya talk about?,He was a bit of a shit but calmed down after some panadol.,He was trying to hide it. But i think he had been crying.,?,Oh, I was kidding, like making a joke because he cries all the time and he's too little to man up,Classic <Name>,So naughty,That aint greatness. Maybe hell be a investigative journalist and uncover trhe truth about some evil corporate plot to attack the working-class.,Pinko bastards,Like cups. Hes pretty sneaky nowadays as well,Nah, there was mad chaos on the vline apparently so they didn't make it up. Apparently they are gunna come up on a weekend or something,? You slept with him?,Gross,Dude, you gotta be straight with people. How shit would it be if a guy you liked did that to you.,Cant handle the cleegs,Thats not even wierd at all. Its hilarious. He was probs just THEFUCKINGBASSPLAYERFORAIRBOURNE and you didnt click,Nice one, now you can crush him like a paper cup,Draw anything,Just scribble on the page,Just chilling. Playing my new synth. Me and <Name>bare getting coffee and trying not to fight. Pretty fun i spose.,Yeah. We dont have proper outlets for our stress.,So we just direct it at each other,Probabkh going to kill each other.,If so okease raise <Name>,That aint happening. I have zero energy,Whats the suburban review?,Cool,So much brown,Add an egg to take it up a notch,Chicken and vegetable pie with funny pasty pun.,Pas,Pastry,3.14159265358979323846264338327950288419716939937510582097494459230781640628620899862803482534211706798214808651328230664709384460955058223172535940812848111745028410270193852110555964462294895493038196442881097566593344612847564823378678316527120190914564856692346034861045432664821339360726024914127372458700660631558817488152092096282925409171536436789259036001133053054882046652138414695194151160943305727036575959195309218611738193261179310511854807446237996274956735188575272489122793818301194912983367336244065664308602139494639522473719070217986094370277053921717629317675238467481846766940513200056812714526356082778577134275778960917363717872146844090122495343014654958537105079227968925892354201995611212902196086403441815981362977477130996051870721134999999837297804995105973173281609631859502445945534690830264252230825334468503526193118817101000313783875288658753320838142061717766914730359825349042875546873115956286388235378759375195778185778053217122680661300192787661119590921642019893809525720106548586327886593615338182796823030195203530185296899577362259941389124972177528347913151557485724245415069595082953311686172785588907509838175463746493931925506040092770167113900984882401285836160356370766010471018194295559619894676783744944825537977472684710404753464620804668425906949129331367702898915210475216205696602405803815019351125338243003558764024749647326391419927260426992279678235478163600934172164121992458631503028618297455570674983850549458858692699569092721079750930295532116534498720275596023648066549911988183479775356636980742654252786255181841757467289097777279380008164706001614524919217321721477235014144197356854816136115735255213347574184946843852332390739414333454776241686251898356948556209921922218427255025425688767179049460165346680498862723279178608578438382796797668145410095388378636095068006422512520511739298489608412848862694560424196528502221066118630674427862203919494504712371378696095636437191728746776465757396241389086583264599581339047802759009946576407895126946839835259570982582262052248940772671947826848260147699090264013639443745530506820349625245174939965143142980919065925093722169646151570985838741059788595977297549893016175392846813826868386894277415599185592524595395943104997252468084598727364469584865383673622262609912460805124388439045124413654976278079771569143599770012961608944169486855584840635342207222582848864815845602850601684273945226746767889525213852254995466672782398645659611635488623057745649803559363456817432411251507606947945109659609402522887971089314566913686722874894056010150330861792868092087476091782493858900971490967598526136554978189312978482168299894872265880485756401427047755513237964145152374623436454285844479526586782105114135473573952311342716610213596953623144295248493718711014576540359027993440374200731057853906219838744780847848968332144571386875194350643021845319104848100537061468067491927819119793995206141966342875444064374512371819217999839101591956181467514269123974894090718649423196156794520809514655022523160388193014209376213785595663893778708303906979207734672218256259966150142150306803844773454920260541466592520149744285073251866600213243408819071048633173464965145390579626856100550810665879699816357473638405257145910289706414011097120628043903975951567715770042033786993600723055876317635942187312514712053292819182618612586732157919841484882916447060957527069572209175671167229109816909152801735067127485832228718352093539657251210835791513698820914442100675103346711031412671113699086585163983150197016515116851714376576183515565088490998985998238734552833163550764791853589322618548963213293308985706420467525907091548141654985946163718027098199430992448895757128289059232332609729971208443357326548938239119325974636673058360414281388303203824903758985243744170291327656180937734440307074692112019130203303801976211011004492932151608424448596376698389522868478312355265821314495768572624334418930396864262434107732269780280731891544110104468232527162010526522721116603966655730925471105578537634668206531098965269186205647693125705863566201855810072936065987648611791045334885034611365768675324944166803962657978771855608455296541266540853061434443185867697514566140680070023787765913440171274947042056223053899456131407112700040785473326993908145466464588079727082668306343285878569830523580893306575740679545716377525420211495576158140025012622859413021647155097925923099079654737612551765675135751782966645477917450112996148903046399471329621073404375189573596145890193897131117904297828564750320319869151402870808599048010941214722131794764777262241425485454033215718530614228813758504306332175182979866223717215916077166925474873898665494945011465406284336639379003976926567214638530673609657120918076383271664162748888007869256029022847210403172118608204190004229661711963779213375751149595015660496318629472654736425230817703675159067350235072835405670403867435136222247715891504953098444893330963408780769325993978054193414473774418426312986080998886874132604721569516239658645730216315981931951673538129741677294786724229246543668009806769282382806899640048243540370141631496589794092432378969070697794223625082216889573837986230015937764716512289357860158816175578297352334460428151262720373431465319777741603199066554187639792933441952154134189948544473456738316249934191318148092777710386387734317720754565453220777092120190516609628049092636019759882816133231666365286193266863360627356763035447762803504507772355471058595487027908143562401451718062464362679456127531813407833033625423278394497538243720583531147711992606381334677687969597030983391307710987040859133746414428227726346594704745878477872019277152807317679077071572134447306057007334924369311383504931631284042512192565179806941135280131470130478164378851852909285452011658393419656213491434159562586586557055269049652098580338507224264829397285847831630577775606888764462482468579260395352773480304802900587607582510474709164396136267604492562742042083208566119062545433721315359584506877246029016187667952406163425225771954291629919306455377991403734043287526288896399587947572917464263574552540790914513571113694109119393251910760208252026187985318877058429725916778131496990090192116971737278476847268608490033770242429165130050051683233643503895170298939223345172201381280696501178440874519601212285993716231301711444846409038906449544400619869075485160263275052983491874078668088183385102283345085048608250393021332197155184306354550076682829493041377655279397517546139539846833936383047461199665385815384205685338621867252334028308711232827892125077126294632295639898989358211674562701021835646220134967151881909730381198004973407239610368540664319395097901906996395524530054505806855019567302292191393391856803449039820595510022635353619204199474553859381023439554495977837790237421617271117236434354394782218185286240851400666044332588856986705431547069657474585503323233421073015459405165537906866273337995851156257843229882737231989875714159578111963583300594087306812160287649628674460477464915995054973742562690104903778198683593814657412680492564879855614537234786733039046883834363465537949864192705638729317487233208376011230299113679386270894387993620162951541337142489283072201269014754668476535761647737946752004907571555278196536213239264061601363581559074220202031872776052772190055614842555187925303435139844253223415762336106425063904975008656271095359194658975141310348227693062474353632569160781547818115284366795706110861533150445212747392454494542368288606134084148637767009612071512491404302725386076482363414334623518975766452164137679690314950191085759844239198629164219399490723623464684411739403265918404437805133389452574239950829659122850855582157250310712570126683024029295252201187267675622041542051618416348475651699981161410100299607838690929160302884002691041407928862150784245167090870006992821206604183718065355672525325675328612910424877618258297651579598470356222629348600341587229805349896502262917487882027342092222453398562647669149055628425039127577102840279980663658254889264880254566101729670266407655904290994568150652653053718294127033693137851786090407086671149655834343476933857817113864558736781230145876871266034891390956200993936103102916161528813843790990423174733639480457593149314052976347574811935670911013775172100803155902485309066920376719220332290943346768514221447737939375170344366199104033751117354719185504644902636551281622882446257591633303910722538374218214088350865739177150968288747826569959957449066175834413752239709683408005355984917541738188399944697486762655165827658483588453142775687900290951702835297163445621296404352311760066510124120065975585127617858382920419748442360800719304576189323492292796501987518721272675079812554709589045563579212210333466974992356302549478024901141952123828153091140790738602515227429958180724716259166854513331239480494707911915326734302824418604142636395480004480026704962482017928964766975831832713142517029692348896276684403232609275249603579964692565049368183609003238092934595889706953653494060340216654437558900456328822505452556405644824651518754711962184439658253375438856909411303150952617937800297412076651479394259029896959469955657612186561967337862362561252163208628692221032748892186543648022967807057656151446320469279068212073883778142335628236089632080682224680122482611771858963814091839036736722208883215137556003727983940041529700287830766709444745601345564172543709069793961225714298946715435784687886144458123145935719849225284716050492212424701412147805734551050080190869960330276347870810817545011930714122339086639383395294257869050764310063835198343893415961318543475464955697810382930971646514384070070736041123735998434522516105070270562352660127648483084076118301305279320542746286540360367453286510570658748822569815793678976697422057505968344086973502014102067235850200724522563265134105592401902742162484391403599895353945909440704691209140938700126456001623742880210927645793106579229552498872758461012648369998922569596881592056001016552563756785667227966198857827948488558343975187445455129656344348039664205579829368043522027709842942325330225763418070394769941597915945300697521482933665556615678736400536665641654732170439035213295435291694145990416087532018683793702348886894791510716378529023452924407736594956305100742108714261349745956151384987137570471017879573104229690666702144986374645952808243694457897723300487647652413390759204340196340391147320233807150952220106825634274716460243354400515212669324934196739770415956837535551667302739007497297363549645332888698440611964961627734495182736955882207573551766515898551909866653935494810688732068599075407923424023009259007017319603622547564789406475483466477604114632339056513433068449539790709030234604614709616968868850140834704054607429586991382966824681857103188790652870366508324319744047718556789348230894310682870272280973624809399627060747264553992539944280811373694338872940630792615959954626246297070625948455690347119729964090894180595343932512362355081349490043642785271383159125689892951964272875739469142725343669415323610045373048819855170659412173524625895487301676002988659257866285612496655235338294287854253404830833070165372285635591525347,Hehe,Looks good blocked in,Yeah dude, gives it like that filmic fuzzy flashback type quality,Yeah man, no biggie sure theyd be fine. Too much on?,That's cool. Well you ask em then,I cbf,Well you kinda are. Thats pretty much all you have to do,All you gotta do is like book a kareoke bar and buy a nice bottle of whisky,Well yeah, i dont really care that much to ne honest. If ya dont want to do it just let me know. Ya can be like a groomsman if ya want.  <name> can be best man.,No, I want you to be best man/eoman cause you know me the best and are my closest friend, but i kind of want it to be about me and not about whether you are too busy or think itll be too hard or whatever.,Well you have six months to organize some kareoke, but if you really think you wont be able to do it I'll ask  <name>. Hell be happy to do it.,Like honestly im always super accomodating to your moods and stuff, but if you are going to make this about you then itll be better to get someone who won't,Its my wedding dude. Im justified in being annoyed at you. Im busy too, i also have depression and now i gotta convince someone else to be my best man because you feel shitty.,It's alright. Better ya told me now than in like 5 months,Cool man. Should be a blast!,We coild never be like mum and sue. Dont worry,I mean, this is important to me and i want you to be involved.,Yeah like, i asked you for a reason and I think youre the best person for the job and im trying to make it as easy as possible for you. Like i told you what i need you to do and gave you ample time to plan. I know we dont really "do" the whole marriage thing in our family, but its usually considered an honour to be asked in the first place.,Sick, thanks for asking. I'll take a look.,That sounds like a good idea. Ill be free tomorrow i think.,Nah hes at daycare.,Yeahman. That sounds goood,Dunno if theyll be too expensive though.,Yeah true enough. Btw im getting ramen at that place in brunswick.,Good call. Good to get an idea of what works. And we will have more time without franco,Oh my fuck so darn full.,Of ramen,So full cant even tryoe,So good. Waiter was super polite too. Hyge serving. Fixed my cold.,I dunno if I can go out today man, pretty sick.,Flicking shit. Gunna make some soup and watch youtubes and be unproductive for once.,Fuck! I thought my new synth was broken but I fixed it. So scary!,Failed. Built some shit.,So sick and tired and so much housework to do today.,Probs. But i feel bad coz <Name>s been at uni all day.,I can barely move. I got a migraine which is making me nauseous and i keep coughing. Im ruined.,Well said leslie,I need drugs,I should be alright. I just forgot to eat and got no sleep. Found some cold meds and feeling slightly better.,Had an apple and having a lie down in the dark,Fuck housework. I need a nap,shitty,yeah, helen took <Name> for abit so I'm just chillin watching shows and drinking tea,so sick though,had a fever and chills for like 3 days straight, and had to sleep on the couch last night because I was coughing and keeping <Name> awake,Got the dehumidifier on.,Humidifer,I mean,If it isn't better by tomorrow ill go to the doc. <Name> is at daycare so will have time.,So shitty to effectively parent a toddler while sick,Its like. No <Name> stay away from there too tired to get up just listen,Hes going great,Which is a blessing Iu spose,Could be worse,Nice! How far are ya?,Need more pix,I love it. I think this zine is gunna be really good,Who would i show? Super raw, so good.,Yeah, kinda makes me feel feels though,Oh really?,You're a dickbag. Its cool, I'd think it was cool even if i just saw it around.,It seems like it would be cathartic. Not good to have all this stuff repressed.,So you're done now? Collating and stuff?,What are you calling it?,Nice,Fuckyeah!,Cause I know all about Patriarchal oppression,Har,Cool,Doesnt really stand out of context that great in my opinion.,Oh cool, with blurb it should be fine then,Yeah what a catch,Equally shit,Nice one mum,Good call mum,NOY,NOT,Haha,\udebe,?,Nice,We still going tro pips tomorrow?,Im still coughibg,Yup,Yeah its just a lingerer,Clock is ticking,Still sleeping in the lounge though. So not really sleepibg,My death could help,Ventolin has been good,Yep, like 45 degrees,Good old wikihow,Looked good to me! DO you reckon I should submit the profesor to that twinge zine?,Cool, will give it and edit and send it through,I think itll be fine,You're just getting better at it,me too!,Sent the professor to twinge,Didn't need much of an edit actually,JUST DO IT,possibly?,best,Awesome!,AHHA,Niceburg lettuce,Ooh yeah! What time ya want us showing up? Do ya get a lunch break?,Which one?,Well show up a bit later, lost puppy showed up in our backyard this morning and waiting for the owner to get back to us,Weight of silence,Nice!,We will be there at like 2?,Thats cool was good to see ya. <Name> will be crayzay wherever he goes,Hey <Name>, what days do you have off again?,do you reckon you could watch <Name> semi regularly on friday mornings?,itd be kinda early though,basically I got uni mon wed thurs fri, and <Name> needs to put her availability in for shifts for at least 4 days, and she can only do weekends and thursday at the moment, so I got uni 9:30 to 12:3 0, then I could come home and take him,it would probably be from 8:30 - 1ish on days she has work,cause we need the $$$$ real bad,would you be able to do that? It'll just be until she finds a new job, and wouldnt neccisarrily be every week, just when she has work and she could let ya know 2 weeks in advance,you can do stuff in the arvo, and <Name> will let ya know 2 weeks in advance if she needs ya to do it.,Thank you so much! We were so worried!,i was gunna take him to class with me,haha,yeah, its audio technology, so recording studio,We were thinkin about having a picnic today ar coburg lake just seeing if ya wanna cone along mum is coming too,Dunno, We'll see when <Name> wakes up from his nap and head off then. I told mum like 2ish,Suk,Sik,Soz if my spelling suks eating muesli,Silicone break down,Aldi plain and simple is like tge best muesli ever,Its like 2 bucks,And its got like no sugar,Dont knock toast,Toast rocks,me too,it does the job,Wha?,Can ya get another one?,Coolman,Cool so its happening! <Name> is free that day to pick you up,Oh right, cool breans. I'll ask <Name>,Did ya have a good time last night?,Cute!,Oh god more incentive,,FOR LAFFS, you should come round and do some vox,haha,the synth sax solo?,so tight,OMG it was sposed to be cheesy!,YES!,yeah, it needs it like the orig,I'm kinda doing it in the higher vocal,yeah man, do it. I'm a semitone lower than the original though,its a super harmony, I've been obsessing over it for days,yeah, its crazy hard to do. Its up on the 7th,just ty and isolate the lady's voice,They are probs just busy or something. Don't read into it too much.,No doubt,Made this for the dane's gig. Think I;m getting better at making posters,Thx brah,How u doon,Worried about $$$? Youre always welcome to come round d and have dinner with us if ya broke,Nice one! Thats really cool of her,Probs coz its good,Not really, youve been working hard on it and developing shit and spending hours on technique and worrying about it and now it is bearing fruit. You work really hard and make good stuff that's real, you deserve any success you get.,Also my story didnt get chosen for that zine.,Got a form email,Apparently there were a shitload of submissions. So fair enough. Might have been a bit too white cisgender male for her. Luckily as a white male there are many more oppurtunitues open to me.,Many many many more,Super not stressed at all. Not like I'm advertising myaelf as a writer anyway,Ill have a look around. Possible that it's not the best story either.,Cute!,You're a badass,Thats the dream,arent zines already mini,zi,how many stamps would I need to ship a tape in the mail?,do ya reckon,gbungers,like $3?,woah stamps are $1 each now,Yeah, I'll just take it to the post office and ask them.,well I charged 3 bucks postage so hopefully thats all it is,my margins are pretty slim,yeah, well this is the first one, and I don't anticipate having to mail many more unless by some miracle we become popular,Maybe ill send some tapes to a label over there,50 with a split 7" makes it 250 each per band, so like 83 bucks each for 50 copies. Dunno how much you could sell it for thoughm probably not enough to make a profit.,Whoops wrong conv,I did some maths,noice $$$$$,What do ya feel like watching? Funny?,Drink it in the pool,Drink it in the rain with a pack of chwetos,I wont have other plans so that sound ace!,Fo sho,YEzs,Aww. Thanks clegs. If it doesnt show up Gma and Gpa and Mum will probaby help me out to buy a new one.,Paul offered to lend me one of his as well.,Yeah, was thinking that.,With baby seat as well!,Oh my fuck,I'm gunna message her back and be like. "Holy crap that's a really nice thought but it won't be neccessary",Too wierd for me.,Oh my god, you want me to to take the money don't you?, <name> would find out and be all like, "WTF?","Why the hell are you sending money to Liam?","Its been like five years!","Give ME money",No shit.,Yeah totes. I should probs post something about that.,Its actually everyone,Yeah, I know. Just hard to like, give people that glimpse into how fucked my life is sometimes.,It kinda is. Everyone has been super nice.,I guess I can be pretty closed off about stuff sometimes, especially when I am really saddened by something, so I can't blame people for not caring if they don't even know.,When you are feeling better please help me understand Romanticism and Realism!,Goya & Schiller and all those guys I think,what a dude,sposed to do a blog reaserach journal thing for spatial practice, one of my electives. This is what I got so far\   "Pretty cool hey,totally man, its just measuring electrical impulses across the scalp,reverse shock therapy,they had the technology, just didnt know how to interpret the data for ages,the instruments were controlled by his brainwaves, so like, they look like this \   those fluctuations were being sent to speakers, which controlled the rhythm of the instruments,am I blowing your MIND right now?,smashing it out,bossa nova?,There is literally no other way to play,wait, peter and joel?,That's the best way to do it. How'd they get on?,thats pretty good going,I've been contact recording all night in the kitchen. Recorded te sounds of the fridge, microwave, kettle, pots and pans. I'm such a first year.,I've been at uni 3 days and have already done more work and organising than I did in the whole of my 1st year at monash,I'm just super into it.,There's a fair bit of work though. I underestimated it. We got weekly homework assignments and jazz,Oh shit. Did you take your meds?,Just gotta keep them up dudeson,Cant find phone,The video chat ended.,Thanks man. <Name> messaged me back saying she wants some space. J boy is here so gunna go get my bike then probably head to your place,Got my bike!!! coming over to your place,Nah, came over this morning and grabbed my stuff.,Yeah soz forgot it. Ill give it to you next time I see you.,Yeah sure,Nice one,Niceone,Good job,Pretty lucky to get outa that,Yeah I guess,Cool beans looking good!,My Studio Tech lecturer is <name> Scullins in that article. It look sso great but I can't afford it!,Not really if you consider they probably have a million dollars worth of old synths to upkeep,I'm so obsessed by that place,apparently you can share subscriptions,maybe I can go halves with someone,Wish I could trade for repair work,Meh, I'll ask my lecturer, I'm sure there will still be places later on in the year,Wish I was normal 25 year old working with disposable income,I would pay that no sweat,And I would have enough time to go,they have so many amazieballs synths there too, really rare old, great sounding stuff.,Anyway, how you doing?,How's paul pic going?,skin folds?,Get ya out of your comfort zone though,Yeah, pretty frigging difficult,Not just drawing yourself now are ya MATE,Even I can draw you,Meh, he knows that. I don't think ya have to flatter him, but ya dont have go all goya either",""" "Haha, coz everyone jumped ship,Man, last night was the best show we've ever played,Good turnout, bands were awesome, got to play with dudes I respect and want to see live, made some money, didn't get too drunk. We were tight as fuck and we sole some tapes,And my outlook was pretty good the whole night, I think therapy is good for me.,Everything is going pretty well for me, and I kinda desrve it.,Maybe,He went down alright?,nice one,did ya feel exaltant?,getting there?,seems like a pretty nominal amount for amount of effort you put in,Looks good for fifty,Who dat?,I think so?,fancy,Meh, its for them not for you I guess,saw that coming,damn straight. Needing piss and checking out shit,Im hungry gunna have an egg,maybe ill make toad in the hole,YUM","" "exactly the same","" "check mate","" "exactly the same,ugh need to study but dont know what to do need ideas,dude so good,Its not the ideas, I have too many ideas, but its execution. I'm stuck at home most of the time, and can only create stuff when <Name> is in bed, which means I can't make any stuff with speakers, which is pretty hard because we are sposed to be interacting with a space.,I gotta give a presentation on my ideas and inspirations tomorrow to the class and I'm kinda fucked.,Yeah, dont have any equipment that can do that and am not a scientist,Though I kind of am a scientist,I just worry that my ideas will be instantly derivative, I keep having ideas and they just turn out to be shit I picked up from the readings,   we have to present our research journal and talk about our ideas tomorrow. Here is my journal, but I don't think there is anything really substantial about ideas. Just worry that my artistic vocabulary is too limited.,Yeah, I just re read the course manual and the research journal is to note out inspiration, practical progress, and our "perception of natural and built environments",I guess I dont have so much of the latter,It also says to critically reflect on the expeiences in the course, which I could do more of.,oh, I looked again and tomorrow is just to discuss what we are doing, the real thing is due in 2 weeks. SAVED,I guess I'll get all these questions answered tomorrow,Its just so frustrating how many of my ideas are outside the house, and I am kinda stuck here\\,yeah hes in tomorrow at 9, so I guess I should head off to the city and record some underground carparks and try and solder some speakers together. I'm just a bit behind cause of all this shit at home, and its freaking me out cause the stakes are pretty high.,Its just I know I need to study but I'm not 100 percent WHAT to study? Don't really have readings and most of the stuff is based upon really vague class work. Just not sure my heart is in it right now, like tonight I mean, but I need to have my shit together for tomorrow,,Guess I just have to find my experimental approach.,Thats true. Actually really happy with my Studio Methods assignment where I recorded the inside of machines around the house.,Added microwave and oven door, sounds great,Its just this particular subject that is throwing me off. Pretty sure im not the only  one though judging from what other kids are saying,Like, we have to present work in two weeks and half the class is like, what the hell are we supposed to do.,I guess I should just stick with feedback stuff and roll with it, its actually a really deep concept.,Thats what its for I spose,Thabks for listening to my art school whines,I guess you just gotta try out a lot of shit, document and learn from mistakes, and be clear about your influences so that you dont get delusions of originality,Trueday,Trudat,Thinking for my major project having some sort of feedback loop involving counting the number of people in the room, like having audio get louder or softer based upon how full or empty a space is,Like, it happens naturally, but could probably rig up something in a gallety which senses amount of oeople and turns shit up based on that number,Or manipulates samples based on that,Maybe it samples the room audio and plays it back at the person for a disjointed experience,Should probably document this ifea in my journal,Primary purpose,Or an oscillator rising in frequency. Im gunna do some research on that,So its a nice low rumble when there are a few people, but rises up to a high pitched shrill loud whine when there are like 20 people in the room, which causes them to leave and have it return to a pleasing low rumble,Thats actually a feedback loop, where I am playing the audience,Nailed it,have you heard of that artist which made that sculpture which was a machine that pressed against the walls of the gallery, and each time someone came to look at the artwork it pushed against the walls harder so theoretically if too many people say the work the gallery would come crashing down,?,cant remember his name,found it, chris burdern samson,Thanks mate,submitted to lifted brow, and tod my lecturer about my human counter idea and he loved it! <Name> got a job as a research assistant for a woman and is like, gunna work from home, and I got in thepaer today. Everything rules!,Super psyched,ps\   "Derr,I DUNNO WHATEVS,I meant for that man of yours dumbo,Nice,Noice,ready for winter comrade,ahaha take that smelliot,Just got questions for the major essay from Art History, mind if I send them to you? Kind of not sure what to pickand would be good for someone who nknows what they are talking about to weigh in,,Kind of intuitvely drawn to the Futurism question, the Dada question, and the Russian soci-political one,They would probably be easier for me as they are more about socio-political context than formal analysis of brushwork and jaz,Me too, I have been meaning to learn more about the Dada movement, and it looks like there is a heap of material on it.,Its either that or the Russians now,Don't wanna just study the Futurists all semester!,Ugh, too messy with too many influences in present day design that I'd have to tie in,Bauhaus that is,Might do some light research on both questions and see what strikes me fancy,I think I'll go with the Dada one, easier and lots of content,Any ideas on where/who to start with for Dada,Readymades and jazz? Like, making a statement against the bourgeois intellectualism of traditional art by presenting found objects and calling them art?,Been checking out Man <name> too, so cool.,Yeah, just lemme get my phone,hellyes bring tomorrow,both of those are doable,I promise I will not let <Name> get a hold of it,Yeah I know, fuck. I'll get it off mum this week,Yeah had a good time, Fiona kinda irritates me though,She's super anal,Cuuute, you dhould man, he's great,if he can survive a family do he must be alright,and we get along pretty well,Glergh, but ya know, you gotta be narcissistic as fuck so...,in response to article not joel,totall,and we have been doing well since <Name>started taking credit for everything, and promoting us constantly to futher his intergrity lol,lol,lol I guess,Not me too, gunna eat more,should be studying but cbf. I realised the majority of my assessment is due in week 6, not week 5, which is 3 weeks from now pretty much,jus chillen,You're a badass,Oh geez,Poor bastard,Bullshit,He's alright he was just a bit colHe's d he woke up thi morning,Cool slams,Nice one dudeson,why?,lameoes,Naw, ill lppk it up,Staryed watching shock of the new,So good,Learning more than have in course so far lol,he kills it and he does profile and then full on face,He was a pretty charismatic guy, I can see why you would get sucked in, schiller.,:(((,Youre a machibe,Machine,Have a cup o tea and read a book,burn,meh, pretty sure thats most pr people,jsut looking for a meal ticket,???,Elemental!,Loke 11,Sorry fell asleep at 8 last night,Therapy is good. She says im making progress and can probably come fortnightly now.,Shes basically trying to encourage me to have more self confidence and take more responsibility for the good things that haopen in my life. Like being self aware but not being analytical and being conscious of triggers,Hm, how much is it? If you specified that it was a loan and paid them back, I'm sure they could help you out. I feel really fucked about asking money from them too, but we aren't mum, and we don't expect that, just make it clear its a one time thing and you'll pay them back.,All they can do is say no,its a decent amount of cash. It'd have to be a loan for sure, but you've never asked them for money,It would be fine. Its a totally normal thing to ask for a loan from them. If you look at it relative to your relationship with them and remove mum from the equation,Yeah, I mean, don't even have to frame it like that. But maybe be a bit more like, I lost my job and I am about to get another one/have cash coming in from homecooked but just need a bridging loan til then.,And they can be like, yes or no.,Its actually that simple,Like, 99 percent of people would be totally fine being asked that,If I had the money I'd loan it to you, you're a responsible person, espectially with $$$,Just gotta get some objectivity on this shit.,And, they are happy to help out, like with th portable air conditioner with <Name>. They just wanna know the money is going somewhere tangible I think.,Just do it, ya kinda need a car, specially when ya aint too good physically.,But yeah, I'd say just be careful of like, framing it emotionally, cause that would probably be a huge red flag to them if ya know what I mean.,SIK BURB,l8ts,Dude yes!,nice one,Its cool, I was right wasn't I/,They're pretty unstylized, which is fairly rare,Bag of meat photography,Yeah I read about that menstrual one,consid<Name>g that periods happen to like the majority of people in society, its wierd that that stuff is taboo,especially considerign every other bodily fluid is fair game,like, blood if it comes out of your nose or mouth or a cut is fine,in fact its like, a stylistic thing,Good call, he's pretty awesome,So I gotta do this spatial practice thing, and what I want to do is walk aroudn the city looking for resonant objects, and cause them to fedback through this portable feedback rig that I made with a speaker and microphone. I needa film it and take process photos but I also needa to clamp stuff on etc. Would you be free any day this week to help me out? Tomorrow or wednesday maybe?,Just taking photos and stuff,and taking video too. I got a camera,Shit yeah, well I might look into skipping class wednesday then I'll have the whole day to do it.,Like 9-5 kinda thing,Yeah, you went from an active job and lifestyle to a more sedentary one, so that makes sense,come running round with me on wednesday, I'll put ya through your paces,good call,I was just gunna inhale a burger but thats probably a better Idea,Aww - You'll get back there,Plus, you don't need that for motivation as much anymore right?,Totes,Having cramps, they wake you up, you get frustrated and look at the time, then look resigned,Oh right, thats not immediately apparent but I see it now,Love cramps,Woah, that close up panel is really well drawn and shaded,Oh yeah, don't stress about wednesday, I got something done today,I'll show you later, its a video,Yeah, its different though, no dialogue,Its definitely by you,So universal,<Name> is so fucked at the moment,He just screams and screams for no reason and doesnt sleep,Sick ad,Sorry typo,Nah hes alright justa  bit screamy,I did all my assessments early! No more stress for at least 3 weeks,I love new solid worker Liam,Ive gone from crammer to incremental daily thinker,   "This is my spatial practice work so far,Its sposed to be a subversion of every day objects, exposing their sonic character and exaggerating it to the point of noise. Also made sure to get in there and move stuff around a bit.,Haha, crazy dudes,Poor bastard,Dude, at least he cares.,He probs just doesn't know much about art anymore,Just tell them youre underqualified,Or just tell them you went for it and dont go for it,how much?,hungie bucks aint bad,Yeah, still a bit screamy but sleeping well,good call,I'm so lost. I've finished all my study early,that would be so good for a sound project,Imagine the machines,The scope: recording particles colliding,and recording the biggest machine in the world,like, from the tiniest atom to the largest structures,totally,I'm sure theres some way you can interpret the scientific data sonically,man, I should go for this. That bill fintana guy just played some drum and bass into a pipe,fontana,   "I'd bash it with a pipe,and yell HAAAAAAA,Thinks hes cool coz hes got fuckin glasses and hes an old man that wears a black tshirt,wear an old man shirt and know your place,and shifty money eyes,Draw comics about your frustrations with being  a comic artist among a bunch of science dudes,yeah maybe I'll go for it, just after I finish my first year assignment where we LEARN HOW TO PUT FILES INTO A COMPUTER PROGRAM,"Hey guys, I'm a musician in an unsuccessful band and first year sound art student, but I know what a microphone is, gimme bux.",Might work,pretty sure thats how bill fontana came abount,abounding,Actually bill fontana is super cool\   "hrh,heh,Righteo,Hooray for scones,Totally, and if ya have a car it wouldnt be that bad of a commute,haha drudge hole,dont pull punches,Where?,I'd love to but I have a big in class presentation that day which I was gunna rehearse in the morning so dont think I canm I can do the weekend?,Sweeet. Good luck. I can help out pretty much any other day.,Yeah that might work. I've got  counselling at from like 1-2:30ish I think,Nice one!,Gunna have to relearn eh,Got ya wheels!,Hey dude, feel like going for a trip out to the tip shop in reservoir on the weekend? I need to get materials for a sound sculpture. Plz hekp!,SWETMAN,I'll let ya know what day is better once helen gets back to me about watching the boy,Yass queen!,Can I send you my critical annotated bibliography on Dada to look at?,Here it is. Its only 800 words, jsut let me know if ya see anything wierd or illogical. Its due on tuesday,Cool good to hear, still wanna chat?,Yes yes, got a tripod and camera DSLR which does video and audio recorder you can borrow, I can help too if Helen takes him out. Could do tip run in the morning and do some video stuff in the arvo.,skaz,Hey broooo, want to go to the tip shop tomorrow? I'll check hrs but would be awersome,SICKKKK,Open til 3:30pm, wanna go round lunchtime? Thats when Helen is coming round,Yeah round then, maybe 12:30?,Man my computer fucked itself and I lost like 90 percent of my music projects from last year,Oh well, will just have to write some new stuff,Its cool, I still have files and lyrics and stuff written down. Actually kidna good, pretty much all just unfinished stuff and sketches so I can go through them and stuff,Yeah, I dunno. Oh well,Not too sad, going in new musical directions this year anyway, and also it all came from me, so it'll happen again,No?,I don't see it on there maybe you dreamed it,Alright, just reading a book for skool.,Cool breans,"Electric Sound", a book about the history of sound art/electronic music.,Its really good, consolidating all the shit I've been thinking about this year,basically I think and work like a 50s tape musician,It'll be done soon right?,Meh, come round and spend a day with <Name> on friday! That'll help,Haha, I feel ya, took a break from uni study for a couple of days and almost got an experimental EP together. So productive, this course has been really good for my confidence.,Go to uni and get some validation,Better than werk in,I validate you all the time,Can't be validated if ya don't listen,My therapist says I'm a creative genius,Well, she said I was highly creative,Charmed her with my stories of domestic violence,True,I got an 87 for my first spatial practice presentation!!!,First piece of assessment I've gotten back,Wow I'm actually good at uni this time,Sweetttt!,how long for?,Coooooo,YAHAHA,Yeah, going to MESS so woulda been pretty bummed if I missed out\   "   "Meant to post about page,Its where I want to be buries,I want to go to there,Wish I had the dosh for a subscription,No frigging way would I let you do that,I just needa sell something,I got too much audio shit just laying round,Its audio gold,I would EXPECT you to do it then,I would be ENTITLED to it,haha, love our family where we are suddenly bourgeois coz we are above the poverty line,That's not insanely bourgie, its just having disposable income,I'll never experience that,Packs of intestinal pain and credit card debt,from eating shit kabobs,Kabob is the proper term,DICK,The kabob now made its appearance, wrapped up in thin cakes of fine wheaten flower.,That is literally all I've learnt this year so far,all my subjects r about kabobs,That's my final essay,I was searching for the meaning of the word kabob,I think I nailed it in the first body para,I'll just add it to the pile,Green wif envy,I need pie,He's got em, Homebound Disposition,Her her,just kidding,lolll,Me too,that frickin place on russell st,Need it,wish I had dosh for ramen,Stupid beautiful wedding,Nah kareoke,Getting on the train until we von,Jenna,Nah we used brix,It's also half covered in wired sticky shit from some tree put back.,Also might be spiders and jazz in there.,It's their home now,You are only visiting,Just go,Say something to make them out you on hold then run to toilet town,Haha, yeah. That shouldn't be hard to get. Email your therapist?,Sok,Yeah no shit isn't homecooked on the weekend?,Bletchley park,For Centrelink?,good call, last thing ya need is Centrelink on your ass,If you straight up cants get out of it I can leave early if ya need.,Oh it ain't his first time at Centrelink buddy, were a welfare family,But you should take him out of you wanna,He's usually really lovely around 3,I can come meet you and we can get coffee or something,Haha, here, take this seat.,Especially coz you look like a single mum doing it tough at Centrelink,Eating Yumis eggplant dip with ciabatta for breakfast. Love my life,Nice,Suposed to be performing a space outside today,Hope so. Got til 4:30,Nice one kiddo,Crowdfunding is insane nowadays,Curating!,haha,Cool! I'll see how I go.,Cool no stress, we're at uni all day but will be back later? or tomorrow whenes,Haha,Dang,Pretty cool,too bad its tiny as,Going to have a look today,Found one and bought it. I got me suit!,Probs just a couple of minor alterations.,Legs taken in half an inch or something,Also got a haircut,Will send pix,Fancy Nancy,Gotta find tie bar cuff links shoes pocket square,Wanna go vintage accessories,Gunna go wif   <name> Monday possibly,Drive me to the moon,It's probably just having so much to do and then having not as much to do which is making you blue.,Probably overextended yourself,Centrelink suck ass,You'll get your payment back,That's stupid,When were you meant to be paid,I was trying to forget,Totally. I still gotta get her a present,So fucked at the moments,Really stressed out and tired all the time,I dunno, just burnout from balancing life and Uni and worrying about <Name> and the wedding and gigs and music and stuff.,Just been a big year,Just gunna cruise with uni a bit for a while,I've been pushing myself pretty hard,The only problem is that I'm having ideas all the time and it's super frustrating coz I'm too tired to execute them,Like, I've been documenting them,But I get tunnel vision with stuff and end up spending three days tweaking one sound that I don't even use for an assessment,Sorry just needs to vent,I should just document the idea and move on,It's the same thing that plagued me before uni, not finishing stuff because I get caught on some loop,True,Memory is a good clarifier,I'm just gunna submit stuff that I already have for the rest of my assignments I think. Might as well take advantage of the fact I've been doing this stuff for years,Realising that it's as important developing the ideas you have as it is having them in the first place,Yeah, that makes sense. I guess I am dabbling and experimenting this year so I don't need to be too hard on myself.,I'm super energised when I'm actually doing it though, just finding time where I am in the right mindset has been hard recently.,I just need to time manage better,I was good at the start of the semester. I just want to sleep,Therapy is making me all aware of my needs,And I realise that I can't work constantly and I need to have relaxation time,Gunna read a book tonight,Gotta get away from screens for a bit,Next assignment is using tape so that should be good,That's a good idea,Oooooo,So small,He's such a big boy now!,That'd be cool as. Whereabouts?,Haha, going for the grey vote,?,Cool,Sick reference,I forget how old and wise you are sometimes,Except without the magic,You want me to bring anything Sunday?,Vienetta,Good call. I haven't gotten <Name> anything for Mother's Day yet!!! So fucked!,I'm so screwed.,Will make her a card tonight,Haven't gotten anything for mum either. Can barely handle the responsibility of pleasing one mother,No buses on Sunday,I just havent had a chance,It's alright, I'll make her a card and breakfast and let her sleep in tomorrow morning.,Yeah I spoke,Spose,Can you not bitch about me to <Name> behind my back about her not getting me a present,Me not getting her,She just blew up at me,That's not how she put it,I hate that,I hate that a 2 dollar piece of shit would have made this all go away,It's so ridiculous,I'm spending all day trying to make her life easier,Which is how I show love,Well she can get fucked and wait until <Name> is old enough to do something for her,I'm over it man. Mother's Day was made to show appreciation for all the things that Mums do for us. She does as little as she possibly can, so she will get little appreciation.,I don't think it's a good idea for us to come to lunch today,Will probably just end up fighting,This stuff makes me feel so trapped,Confined to this set of rules,Yeah it's probably not true,I'm just fucking pissed,I'll chill out,All good we made up. I said that stuff to you so I didn't say it to her.  Making her poached eggs and avo,Heading off in 5. Still need me to swing by Coles?,So you don't need me to swing by Coles?,Me too! Cool family day. You and <Name>seem tight as shit arm,Atm,Shit arm?,Need to find a space to set up my sound sculpture,And document it and stuff,Can you help me? Gotta get it done by the 18th,Butts,I need a spot where it will look mundane, kind of blend in with the background. But need power for the sensors.,Nah, can be anywhere.,Probably, just need somewhere unadorned,Yep,Seasonal?,You'll get through it bud.,Ya seemed like you had a good time yesterday,Surgery & The Dole,Not a good pair,You guys coming on Wednesday night?,It's sounding real tasty. Did a rehearsal at school today.,Hopefully some people show up,Tried to talk to <Name> about it before and she was too busy talking to you and Christobel on Facebook,You gurlz,Oh god,I'm actually really excited for this gig and I don't have anyone to talk to about it,I wish I had a group chat,I had an amazing rehearsal today,I want to play more solo gigs!,I think my new setlist is really good!,Should be pretty decent,Lineup look salright,Havent seen any of them play before but meh,<name> are playing a gig the same night,so I think everyone will probably go to that, or half half,Possible,<Name>Hole,Didnt you have sme ideas for the next zine?,Ya been workin ya self half to death bid. Ya gotta slow down for a bit.,You ain't failing, you're getting better.  Ya just gotta roll with the punches.,How so?,That's like every place though right? Would be a good leg up,You got potential,Aww shite,Fair enough. Yeah see if he wants to go.,Force him to go,Hopefully. Haven't heard any of these other kids Cept InfraGhosts who is pretty good.,Also need someone to use me recorder,I dunno if anyone's coming.,Haven't spoken to anyone about it.,Weekend?,Oh yeah! Are you?,Part of the inner circle of 12,He added me,What the hell Peter?,Cool paintings,We should add Leigh,Oh god,Get out,Playing a show June 9th in the gracement. Send out the word,Think it'll be easier setting up a show with solo acts,Well ya got plenty of notice for werk,jaysus,jaysus,Nice,Should help with all the shire you been going thru lately,Pre emptive strike,shiiiiz gimme recipe,listening to <Name> brown live at the apollo for like the millionth time,sucha  damn good album,did I tell you about the resident american composer series? The residents are fcking wierdoes but they made an almost exact copy of <Name> brown live at the apollo except its completely fuckeyed,its so insane,I'm listening to the residents and <Name> brown doing the same songs back to back,who needs acid,   side,do it,just finishing up a mammoth 15 minute composition for my final assessment,fricking crazy,Had like 5 cups of tea,and half a box of shapes,im off me chops,My composition is so unhinged,Its so dark,its been a stressful semester,its actually pretty good,gotta wait a few day then give it an objective listen,been having trouble with rupture and transition in my compositions, but I think I am getting close to nailing,it,like, pulling back completely and then mashing eardrums,I always seem to have something happening, I needa make more use of silence,sorry, am just typing notes while listening now,it starts really weak, but gets stronger as time goes on,thats what always happens, is that I start just trying to fill space and by the end of it I end up having way more cohesion,classic dude,probably. Or I could just start it from 3 minutes in,Its not really weak, its just not as conceptually there as the rest,thats the problem with working on long form pieces, is that the idea starts evolving as you make it,its just a kind of mashup of all the stuff I've been exploring this semester,haha, yeah, I mean it really parallels my experience this semester,starts out wiht a huge burst of ideas, heaps of different stuff, and the ned is really simple and elegant,end,ned,is dead,you should get some decent headphones one day,get some superluxes,they are cheap and sound REALLY good,superlux hd681,sick as,they look like they are from alien but the sound like 300 dollar headphones,and they are like 35 bucks,no wait, 29 bucks,if you got headphones you could listen to all my sound art shit,it would be sick,headaches,for you,get,Nah just for my shit,nah only my stuff,headphones are the best,can if you wear a pair of CANS matey,CANS is what audio professionals call em,you probably dont know that coz you arent an audio professional just a plev,pleb,ur probs all like "Speak the queens english good sir" and I'm like "Cans, Fletcher Munnson curves, acoustic response graph, spatial awareness plugin reactive installation work",I know what all those mean,no,but I could probably pretend,I know what a riso and a panel is,Screen tone is probs just the colour that it looks like on a computer screen and then when you print it it looks different,splash panel is one of those ones in the middle of a comic where its all big and shit,am I close?,Holy shit that exists!,I'll get some from japan,looks sick as,I was right about splash panel,nah was right,remind me when I'm over there and I will get some for ya,Scweat come round in a cou Le of hours he's just gone down.,Sweet. Bring mum over too if ya want. She called earlier,You as cold as ice,I thought you'd never ask!,You called <Name>.,?? Pray tell,Just casually suggest it?,Qualify with "I think",Sounds good brarhj,Good, presentation is due in an hour so in library,   "Sscscweattest,Looks good mate,Seems like it would be! Probs won't film coz too stressed for logistics but would be anew some if I could cadge a lift there?,Will buy ya a beer,Can I send you my Dada essay to have a look at?,Sending anyway,   "Mah due in a few days,Just wanted you to look at it,<Name> got her dress and this is what shes gunna be doing on her wedding day!,I know!,Ouch,Read my essay!,Anything sticking out at you as not making sense?,ok, I'll take a look,har har, will give a it a shot,cant get the rumbliness down,thanks for ur edits brarghhr,you managed to chop up soem sentences I was finding it hard to,what would you give a first year for this essay?,haha,wierdly specific,Yahoo, its due on tuesday so might edit it once more and then just submit it,Got 80 percent for that sound sculpture presentation,Lecturer was like: perhaps it's worth exploring the per formative actions further,Totes. Gotta do a write up and then submit it. Two down two to go and then I'm done!!!,woah I look so much like <name> in that pic of me and fran at the zoo,have a feeling im gunna start looking more like him as I get older,SUBMITTED ME ESSAY,YARHOO,haha,so bad,haha,how the great hah fallen,Sik azzzzzzzz,yeah probably,Coolbeans! For sure! What time?,Yum! Could work possibly. Just depends what <Name> does with his nap times as they're kinda in a state of constant flux.  He is pretty fussy at the moment but was eating bits of me burger today so I think he's down.","" "PS bought this tie,Now just gotta get shooz like this,Haven't bought them yet coz $$$,<Name>'s dad is taking me shoe shopping though on Wednesday so might be able to fundraiser a bit from him.,Mini burgs,He'd probs get pissed coz we had a different size of burgers,I find ya just give him exactly what you have and he completely explodes it with his evil baby hands and then he asks for yours coz his is broken,Yeah,gotta get shoes first then match belt to shooz,SWEEEt,I'll get the shoes first,haha, I will, found one today which was on sale which I liked, but gotta wait til I get shoes to match,Hey clergzelwerzel, did you want to play summer wine with me at the wedding?,Nah me and <name> recorded one today and he was having trouble with the female parts,I'll send you the demo,,have a listen and see if ya can get the structure. You'd be singing the female parts obvs which means you'd be starting,Sick as. Il let ya know when we're having rehearsals and maybe you can show up for the last hour or so and we can run through it? As long as you are cool with singing with <Name>around,Not sure yet, still working that out. Sometime next week. What days are you working?,SWWWWEEEET,lemmesee,haha, think some memory distortion has kicked in,Do you think <name> should say something at the reception?,<Name>'s worried he's just gunna get really drunk and stoned and ramble on or something. I wish I could assure her that he is gunna be on good behaviour, but I kinda can't,,Is it sad that I want him to?,Yeah fair enough.,I just want him to care,True. Do you reckon him and mum will get really drunk and stoned though? Kinda want them to remember stuff,true,yeah, I dont wanna put undue pressure on him,I know, it just sucks not having a real dad sometimes.,Yeah, I guess I've been thinking about him more.,PS got all me suit stuff today. - Tie bar, belt, shoes, socks, fricking swish,pretty 60s,cant believe how powerful I look,<Name> totes took it from down low so I look like a hitman,a classy hitman,thats just my resting face,aww,Its a reall nice outfit,Its all the details. before than its just a jacket and some pants,gunna get a pocket square in the mix on the day too but needa unpick the breast pocket,true, but I reckon I look elegant and not too weddingy,didnt wanna do the whole three piece morning suit thing,Cool!,Coz your shit is good,Aww. That's really good! You're a good influence on him I think.,Were you and mum gunna get me a haircut somewhere. Suposed to do it 3 weeks before so it has a chance to grow out nicely,?,Cool I'll call tomorrow,whoops no I'll call now,captians of industry is 60 bucks,is that cool,sweet ass sweet,what ya doing today?,me and fran are gunna be hanging round coburg this afternoon, was thinking of going for coffee then pop shopping or something,op,lets all hang,can you do next monday for haircut?,i'll check em out on spotify,Nice,I'll let ya know when I'm gunna head to coburg","""""""""" "Passive aggressive,I got a pair of butts in my butt and I never told anyone.,At mums on 5,In,Haha,He does that look all the time,Think mums planning something,heckyes,Looks good to me. On phone though. Will have a proper read when we get back from voting.,Dafuq think I'm gunna get like 96 percent for art history,I'm not just wanna boast,Its good coz I felt pretty unintelligent last year, and also when I didn't get through my last course, so I guess now I'm getting a sense that I am capable of academic success again is pretty significant,I know but that didn't stop me feeling like it,Uni is super validating,Good to be surrounded by people who are interested in what I am as well,Coz affirmation,Goo pop. Half stressed and half excited like a muthabutch. Everything is pretty much down now and we get married in less than 2 weeks! Fricking crayzay,Gotta seriously sit down with my speech,Got a pretty good idea of what I am going to say.,Don't let me forget about it though coz next couple of weeks are Gunna be crayzy,That's cool me and <Name> will come round. Dunno if <Name> can she's ear deep in werk atm,Should be fine,Yeah do it,Good one,He was also really funny and we shared a love of Joy Division.haha,its goooood,Wired,Totes would go see gimme danger,Yahayahayahayahayahayahaya,Sounds good,When is it on??,Jakjsjsksjjsjsjsjsjsusuuusuusuuusu,haha,yeh,I'm alright though,But I know his,friggin gurlz only club,I also did a poo today,did ya hear about that?,lol,you and christobel and <Name>s special fracbook messaging club,its the gossip about Liam all about Liam club isnt it,Do you wanna come to rehearsal tomorrow?,12-6,three phase,co,coo,alright ill let the gents kow,now,know,know,know,know,Found my first grey hair today!! Fucking <Name>!,Oh man got my marks back,Studio Tech: 80Studio Methods: 85Spatial Prac: 82Art History: 89!!,pretty frickin happy,best marks I've ever got,<Name>s,<Name>s like "meh",come back when ya get over 90s,I'm pretty sick \ude8d\ude9cUnless lunch is chicken soup,I reckon ill be alright before the wedding,its only tuesday,just making sure to get loads of chill time,Christobel brought me meds and tea and soup,what a gal, <name> is missing out,Cool girls,dudes suck,we rule,He's doing some good learning,haha,too cautious,What about Chris,And ben,And   <name>,and jackson,nah,need coffee,but too sick to make,everyone's fucked. <Name> shits his pants, I have crushing self esteem issues, and <Name>can''t get a job,he slepin,maybe I'll just go have a nap,gotta upload these recordings from yesterday so that people know what we are playing,fuck being organised is exhausting,It'd be so much easier to just sit around whining and let everyone else do everything for me,<Name>,so thankless,Oh well, I reckon we'll be ready to play on saturday night,also think we have the songs down well enough to be able to have a fun with them,that was all I was worried about,its not fun if noone can keep in tune etc,hopefully we pull of that 3 part on summer iwne,think we will,be drunk enough not to care,Yeah, early night though,had soup, now I'm the best,Sha,<Name>missed a call from you.,Whoops,Pocket dialled,Fuck yes. I'm sure <Name> has some o that stuff around,I never have baths,Dunno if I'll have time before the wedding though, maybe the night before,Yep just gotta print em out and do a test run tonight,Noice,Fancy,He looks good!,Alright. They just left. <Name> was stressing the hell out of me just by proxy. There's actually no reason for us to freak out everything is going according to plan. I just want today to go fast!!!,And wanna get less sick,She won't listen to reason. Bridezillaing hard. I gotta pack all <Name>'s stuff and drop shut off at the reception venue but apart from that all good.,Today is going so slowly,Nah Mary and jazz are showing up in a bit.,She's totally making everything about her ,Have literally spent all day running around cleaning the house and making her cups of tea,Glad she's someone else's problem for the night tbh,Lol,What time ya finish?,Probs gunna go to bed by 11.30,Pop round if ya want though,But yeah, just destressing tonight for the big day tomorrow,<Name> is totally having Peppa time when he wakes up. I'm gunna have like 10 cups of tea,Haha. Still stressful,So gendered,Damn straight. Got some coconut oil in my hair and look like Rudolph Valentino,cool!! ill talk to ya later,Way to be 5 hours late lol,Yes!,Also bring food coz I'm stress eating hard,Ate franks cheese,Ate franks chair,Ate <Name>,Can you be delivery person at work tonight so we can order pizza and then lock you in the house and ransom you for more pizza for your work but they will have no way to get the pizza to us cause you are hostage and then we get to hang all night and eventually get a steady stream of delicious pizza?,The only flaw in my plan,I'm riffin!!!,Need beer to cool me down,A single beer,Slsllslslslsllslslslslslsls,Lshdkdakdkddrdedkdndnd,Nzsndjsndndd,Too many cups of tea,Hsfaishsjsoshs,Just kidding only had one just amped,Lawl,Yup,<Name>quit,And musical stagnation,What a week,Got a psych appointment tomorrow. Lots to talk about!,He just ain't creative musically,Who?,Oh right, did you wanna get them to play?,Haha, they play way too many gigs,Do ya need 3 if you're doing a zine launch,I could ask <Name> seedy to open?,That's cool, all you gotta do is give him 3 acts and then you can change em around til up to like 2 weeks before,Most of the time it's provisional lineup anyways when ta first book,They just need confirmation that you can actually get 3 bands to play,Lemme know if ya need help,Can ask <Name> seedy if you want,He'll be free, I was talking to him the ther night about maybe playing a show in August,But wait til ya hear back from other peeps",""" "Totes bragh","" "dude that looks tasty,awww,SHIT,hagelslaaaag,!?!?!?!?!?!?!,That would be cool as!,I can probably sort out a PA,Kool. Wait to hear back from Dane there is plenty of time before the show,But totally get plan b just in case,You'd probably make some extra dish if you sold drinks,Dosh,dosh,kkkk,WOAH,Yeah doesn't have to be ON your actual birthday.","""""""""""""" "FUCK!","""""""""" "I AM THE GREATEST!!!,FUCK YOU",""" "I'm off da railz soz,Had pizzaa for breakfast and told a baby hello,I'm going crayzay,Had TWO cups of tea and coughed into a pillow. Now THTS crazy!,I have to go to a cafe for that \ude1f,Naw I'll just wait til <Name> starts earning big bucks and then get a maid.,A Maaaaaaaan, A man needs a maid. Do do do do dooo,A maaaaaan needs a maid,My life has changed in oh so many ways. I don't know who to trust anymore. There's a shadow running through my days. Like an angel going from door to door. I was thinking maybe I'd get.a maid. Find a place nearby for her to stay. Just someone to keep my house clean, wash the olaaates and go away.,Lol coz this is the 17th century,Lmao soz I'm just a bit crayyyyzay,Lmayo,Sick day?,Dude!!,Chills?,Headache?,It's the fucking worst,Some sort of Spanish flu that survived vaccination,Do you have meds?,The goggles do nothing,Good call,When ya have werk?,Fuck mate try and smash a nap,Dude you'll be fine,I felt the best I have in the last couple of weeks when you were got that care package. You're the cold smashing queen,Plus you don't smoke,You'll be fine,Just obliterate it with healthy crap,woah,grosz,If you die I will avenge you,I'll drive it off a cliff in your memory and burn your bed with a hommemade molotov while singing ave maria,Cool!,Yeah just getting my eyes tested,Talked to mum,Alright, just exhausted and drained,how bout you?,not much, just hanging with <Name>.,yeah hes being chill,I just cbf today,should eat and shower and stuff but im just lying here,yeah, <Name>s going to work so will be good to have some space,she isnt great with all this stuff,ha,Psidoollppllllppp\u00f4,<Name> sent that lol,District North678/680 Mt Alexander Rd, Moonee Ponds VIC 3039(03) 9372 9116\   "Google goggles,cooo,making it hard for yerself,lawl,We still hangin today,Asaps if we wanna go to the tip shop coz it shuts at 3:30. Otherwise we can go op shopping in Brunswick at savers etc. o gotta get materials for my sound sculpture today,Call you back,Putting <Name> to bed will call in 5,Good call. I'll go to the tip shop tomorrow morning,Let's go to savers and brotherhood in Brunswick,Need a boom box & esoterica,Sounds good matey,Let's get ramen,Or if you're too broke well get a1,PARMAs,Not sure will text <name>. About to meet up with <Name>.,Don't worry about it too much. I'm gunna reschedule my 8:30 appointment and Mary should be able to come round later on so I can go tot the Alfred with <name>.,Thanks matey. I'll keep ya posted of what I learn.,Messaged <Name>about PA. totally cool for us to use it but one of the speakers has a blown tweeter so I'll have to fix it or use another speaker.,Coooo,I'll be able to scratch something up. Can always borrow from uni at a pinch,They have pas and mixers and jazZ,If you help me pick it up then let totes get it,Ha,Alright, just adoing some work,keeping busy,excited to see <name> and you guys tomorrow arvo,Did a draft of my exhibition review,gotta go back and get the titles of the artworks,cept theyre all called untitiled nowadas,I'm a good work guy,You're a fucken machine,Drink nought water,Drink motor oil,I dunno what I'm gunna play at squish face,Nah my problems,Pretty whack,Thank duck,Thank the duck,Don't worry about that right now,Be objective,I like the white one,Make a version for the event cover photo,SWEEEET,That looks cool but it's kinda hard to read,PS are you coming to pick us up from the aeroport tomorrow <Name> needs you!,We land at 12:15 but can get food if ya got shit on,Are you cool to pick us up at 12:15 though???,Whoops,Pooooobutt,Gggggggg,Aeroporto,Gbiggy,quit being fancy,X 2,ha,That's cute,Lawl,I'm so fucking depressed today,I dunno,Maybe, I'm so flat,Things just seems really fucked in general,so vague,Yeah its outta battery,should probably plug it in,bleh,Well I'm sick, so I'm not taking it too seriously,I had an existential crisis for the first tiem in a while,that I spend too long building shit to make music and not enough time making it and I am losing that part of myself,Got the shittiest writing block,Maybe I should just take a break from music for a while,I have been though, and it hasn't made a difference,I'm worried that I'm too one dimesional,Like, its all about music and sound and crap,I dunno,see, I'm vague as fuck,just a feeling that something is wrong with my life and I don't know what it is,trying to be mindful,Not really,its all the same,I cant break out of this rut,Yeah, we're broke and I'm sick and I'm prety lonelym and I don't wanna do any uni work or anything but I don't want to do anything else,I should take a nap,cool,yeah it will be,sorry I know its your birthday,i hope I dont wreck it,yeah,k,thanks,?,kooo,looks like my brain,blurred figures in a sea of grey,hurtzog,Ha,Fuck that heater in the bathroom must be hot as fuck!,It's radiating heat,Looks kool brargh,Good call. That was really nice of you dude,Fair call. Got started a bit later too,Was it a big drive?,Way to go man. Hope ya had a nice time today.,????,Who the hell is <name> trying to be? Iggy pop?,I am a slacker,Was the most slackturate depiction of me ever,Unrelated,Hehee,Thanks,You nice girl,Me happy guy,Lawl,<number>,0434529042,<Name> is 0406060529,is yours the same?,Wierd,might be imessage pppl,Haha oh god,You reckon you might be able to come babysit <Name> on the night of the 15th or are you working?,Gotta gig. I can try and find someone else. <Name> might be working,That's cool,I thought you might be werkin,Ya reckon mum might come round?,I'll put him to bed just need someone here if he wakes up,I'll ask her tomorrow when I see her,wtf that made me sad now im goign to bed sad,no I am sad gnight,That's the lifted brow?,I know!,So freaky,Just like me he he,Early 20s according to Mag,General decay and demoralisation of the western world,Haha, apparently the saline drip he was on was diluting his blood a bit too much and he's been really fatigued. They won't know how much blood He's lost until they do a gastroscopy and check if there is internal bleeding.,he's in the right place and he's getting a transfusion now,so they're doing the right thing,I think i we went today it would proabbly just stress him out,better togo tomorrow when hes feelign a bit better hopefully,Yeah,He was alright,just a bit zoked from painkillers,Super broke,I htink im sick again too,cant really mov that much, havent eaten or showered or anything today,feeling really shit,just trying to get by,Did you see him todya?,how was he?,It was pretty good,I just feel shit,I'm not spiralling r anything,I just gotta try and take it easy,I'm alright,Trying to. Thanks,I know. It's not just <name>, I think I'm pretty fucking burnt it and stressed anyway and this is a pretty good excuse to kind of let things go a bit,Out,I took a mental time out like all day today. I'm sick and feel like shit and were broke as so I've just been lying on the couch and drinking cups of tea,Just gotta take some time. I figure I can work all week, not take a break and be like 20 percent productive cause I'm so exhausted, or I can chill for a couple of night and work hard the other ones with a clear head,Yeah thats a good idea,close to <name>,Worst photos ever,Xmas tree we aren't even in and Opas funeral,Likes have only existed for like 5 years. Plus probably doesn't count likes for pages,You get a cute vid,Haha yes,what did he rget,he got a mezza plate I bet,<Name> just isnt sleeping today,Garbage bags,ho geez,auto populate job list,I just emailed all my lecturers lettign them know whats going on,ergh,I hate drawing ttetntion to myself,Got a 65 for my art history review thing. First credit of my degree \ude15,Some shitty abstract painting exhibition,It's alright I'll just have to hand in a really good essay,You literally get out what you put in, so not engaged with this subject,It's understandable,Yeah I know it just scares me coz this is exactly what happened with my grades at Monash,Started out really good and then dropped the ball in second semester,I got a 89 for art history last semester!,That's true it's just kinda annoying. I guess I should be happy to even be passing this semester. I'll make it up next year when I've got less on.,I spose the other mark I have gotten is a HD so I should shut up.,It's not indicative of a trend it's just one assignment in art history. To be fair I've barely showed up this semester.,Yeah should lower expectations this semester,Not running at full capacity,skip it and come hang with me and <Name>,no wait go and be responsible,haha,just walk in,once you get started you'll be fine,meh, get started and if you straight up cant do it just go home. You can get another job like that in a heartbeat,yeah just be surly,What you doing tomorrow arvo? Can me and <Name> come over?,Oh sheeit dats cool, I was gunna come over at like 4. We'll figure out something to do no stress \ude1c,I dunno, I'll see how we go. <Name> can be pretty crazy round that time,I dunno. I would ask her but she's probably asleep coz she old,Probably asleep in an armchair after a glass of sherry,I gotta be outta the house coz the cleaning lady is coming round and <Name>'s got work,I'm homeless,Maybe I'll visit <name>,If I bring heaps of cakes I should be alright,Cakes and books,Title of my autobiography,Koo,yep,THAT LOOKS NIVE,NCIE,NICE,Youll be there all night,Thats the only vers I make nowadays coz I lazy,just put a lid on it and fuck off for a bit,then come back and eat rice n shit,NOICE,im going to bed,that was a fun romp through your dinner for one,nte,Make stuff and bring it in the car as much as possible coz mags kitchen kinda sux,yum,i think she'll appreciate it,Its not that bad she just doenst seem to have many baking pans and stuff,its electric,I managed to burn spinach and cheese triangles but I wasnt paying attention,I worked out how to do audio for my presentation!!! You wanna test it out?,Call 90135406,Did it work?,Pretty cool though huh?,It's like, you call up a number and request a location from a list by the phone: rainy, the beach etc and I am at the other end playing a conposition through the phone which is sonically representative of that location,Still gotta iron out the kinks but pretty cool,Could theoretical play a live performance into the phone which is kinda cool too,Yeah I know I've got to figure that out.,I guess coz I'm listening at the other end I can just listen to the person and then play an audio file based on what they request,So it's spouses to be from a pay phone too,Sposed,Yeah,Nice heavy breathing,Yeah I reckon it'd be cooler,Haha,Haha yeah we suck,Haha coz your 6,Thanks man, I'm so happy it's working,Woah man I only have a week,I need to capture sonic spaces,Phone art,It started as trying to find a place I could plug in to speaker for a site specific installation then I was like oh wait payphones are everywhere,I know I wanna expand the concept,I reckon it would have a pretty good chance of securing some kind of arts grant, it's the kind of thing people go nuts for,Yeah exactly it's a kind of experience,Yeah, it's kind of accessible and conceptual at the same time.,It's just a system for disseminating sound art, so it could be a live performance, a composition, or music, or a recording of somewhere,Thanks gurl","" "Are you watching all stars latest episode???,Lamers,Call the number again! I made it better,Ask to go to a rainy place,Better?,Haha,Cool now I just gotta do a writeup,Haha, thanks for testing t for me,<Name> bitching about us being broke again?,but yeah thatd be awesome,I'm kind meh with cooking at the moment,yeah we could both cook something and both clean up,yeah, its pretty lonely cooking dinner, as you know probs,After 5 I do everything until <Name> goes to bed, so I make dinner, clean up, do the dishes, give him dinner, put him in the bath and take him  out, make him a bottle and <Name> hold him for 5 minutes and then puts him to bed,which makes it totally shit,but ya know, if <Name> is bitching about me not making dinner she can lift a finger anytime she wants to,grrr,oh yeah,Sorry I get real touchy about that stuff, I do a lot around the house,hows he doing?,nice!,oh cool, hows he doing?,that's good to hear,yeah he's a bit more negatice apparently,I gotta go to bed, talk in the morning?,dats cool,was nice chtz,fuck you always start talking to me when im jsut getting ready for bed ya bum,night owl,nighto,I'm doing alright mate, hard time for all of us,Oh yeah let's talk tomorrow bout it,I like that you guys are concerned for me but ya know, don't let caring for me stop you from dealing with your own feelings about <name>. My therapist said that when I feel out of control it automatically try and care for someone else and I think that's a family thing.,I am but it's pretty much under control,yeah!,I gotta make stew,Yeah I got it all just needa cook it,Alrighty sounds good,Feel poopy today will be good to have hangs,K cool were at Barkly square doing our washing. 2:30 would be good?,Heard those names on the grapevine. Will look em up tonight thanks cleegs,NOICE,does it have a cable?,I know it's better than mine lawl,I have a cable if he needs one,That sounds Noice,\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14,\udca9\udca9\udca9\udca9\udca9\udca9\udca9\udca9\udca9\udca9,\ud83e\udd18\ud83c\udfff,Black metal lol,Fuckin carn the doggies \ud83c\udfc9\ud83c\udfc9,<Name> got bitten on the hand today at daycare,And then in an unrelated incident got bitten on the other hand by a different baby,Toddlers r fukd,So funny,I had to sign two incident reports,One for each hand,Maybe I'm the only one that thinks it's kinda lulzy,Meanwhile he ain't going to bed anytime soon coz DST,Stupid farmer dicks,Why can't they just get a rooster or whatever or get machines to harvest for them 24 hours a day or something,Modern farming is like, push button machine and wait half a year,Buy Akubra hat and star on hit channel 10 reality TV shows,Why can't we all just run to atomic time or something stupid Gregorian calendar making me late to everything,Useless unpopular and unsuccessful memes I think,Lawl,Haha it's so crap,It's what I would make if I made memes,Lol,Trololololololololol,Trolololol,So many memes,I am rejoicing,That love it,They,I got 88 for my art history presentation,Totes makes up for my shot mark in that other thing,If I do well on my essay I'll be in HD town,Which is a town in north kickassville,I'm happy coz I was super disappointed with that mark and now I'll be fine,Nummers,Needs some of dis,Gross,That's me,Though you'd love that picture it's a guy with reddish hair and a beard,Omg why does chris hate me so much,He's so angsty round me,Actually he's probs just tired,I was being so charming too,godamn,is his girlfriend jess? is that his girlfirned?,Oh right, anyway I've met her a few times before I think. She thought I was funny at least but chris was sotny af,stony,he was luke cage stoony,Har nut to crack,sik kunct,Me too,Haha bass playing photog,Hanging out the washing pic is fucked,Oh god poor mum in top left,So awkies,She looks better now,His friggin denim jacket,So crusty,Always smelt like tobacco factory,Height of fashion,K,Cool,Like I said, tomorrow isn't the last chance if you wanna add something,Yeah, think it'll be good,Woah everyone looks good in that one even mum,\ude25\ude25\ude25\ude25,Band photo,\ude1b\ude1b,Downloading now,File is getting bigger, going to get some of these bastards printed,Nah should be fine,Thanks cleegs,Thanks sis, I kind of couldn't write anything til today,Who's that on the right?,I think I've got like 50?,68 Actually,<Name> is being fuckign crazy today,He just screams and yells all day,I wanted to go to class but I can't do it,I feel like shit today,It was an excursion to the percy grainger museum and we were going to get to play the instruments! I was super excited about it but <Name> has work so I can't go,takes an hour on PT, so I would get there at 2 and have to leave at 3 to get back in time,in time for <Name> to leave for work at 4:30,Nah its ok, he's so unmanageable today it would be really hard for you,Yeah,Currently jsut screaming in bed,Yeah, I dunno, might have been a distraction,I don't really know anymore,Maybe, I need to self care at the moment and dont have an outlet to do it though that much,Maybe I'll just go for a walk or something,Havent left the house all week,Losing someone or something you love?,I lost my fave hairbrush ONO,Physical symptoms,I've been feling that,I feel like absolute shit today,achey and feverish,I just hung with   <name> and talked to <name> on the phone,Think I laughed for the first time in a long time,I feel really sick,maybe I should watch something,Ugh I cannot handle being sick right now,I think so? I watched it the other night,did roxy go home?,no she didnt,oh right,alyssa went home,I remember,So sad,Seen season 8 and most of 7,nah 8 Bob the drag queen,Hey do dyou wanna come to green park in a couple of hours?,I'm sick and feeling really shit today,sickness has destroyed my stoicism,Fair call, I feel like absolute shit so just gunna hang and get an early night,Also  <name> sends her condolences,   the pics of <name> I've gotten so far. Thought ya might want to have a look.,Yeah, I don't think I can go coz its in the middle of franks nap time,Don't go then. I just said I wasn't going,Okay then,We're going tomorrow though,Kool,People understand if we don't make it to stuff at the mo,Don't stress,Nah I think we might go with <Name> but we'll see,They look fine,Probably burnt that one of me and <name>,Don't stress too much. Not the best photogs,Hoe pic good. Other one is pretty much the essence of teenage angst.,Cool,Ships song lyrics,Yeah cool I'm gunan try and get those details sorted tomorrow,I'm fucking falling apart after today,I can't handle all of this shit,I just don't have a dad anymore,for the rest of my life,I won't be able to show him anything that I've done with my life,He just wont be there,to ask questions, or chat about stuff, or do the questions, or watch a movie with, or have a drink with,or do any of the stuff that I do with him,and its so unfair and sad,chinee,I invented torn jeans in 1984,ha ha,yes,We are wierdos,what did she send?,That looks really good,We should pick an order of service soon,Might get on the tonnight too sleepy now,Proabaly,123 Fake st is where tony lives,can you call tony and ask about whether he is bying booze and his address for wake? I can if you want.,coo,Cool good to know smashing highway 61 revisited,Yeah if you're free,Coo brands,I'm making the dvd now,had to edit out some photogs for 50,do you still have a DVD player?,Oh that's cool, I ned like aregular one that attaches to a tv,yeah true,Dude!,That looks amazing,Yum!,I want,Yum,Yums,Wots ur bank details dummy,yeah lets take our car then we can go on citylink,can I send you my half finished essay to take a look at,I havent put a bilbliography yet,whoops,when ya get bck?,kool,ooh yeah,thats <Name>,dont decapitate my bb,Okay, I'll call her in a minute I am literally in the middle of study,thas good to hear,Cute! Yeah we had fun. Traffic was a nightmare in the way home though. They gave me some cash to give to you for your bday,Like 5:30,Left at 3:30,Yeah,<Name> almost killed me and mum,Woz super claustro,I gotta learn to drive,Nah we were totally fine she was just pissy that she had to drive,cool!!,Fancy,yep, I already sent her 300,Just be careful walking round with that many clams,wha?,yeah,I know,fucking hell,World sucks,yeah, he was ready to go,woudl bump anybody off,Haha,That would be cool as shit,apply,you might have enough $$$ from inheritance if you are avvy,<name> would have loved that!,I miss <name> today,I wish he wasn't dead,Yep,Hey what are we doing for presents? Are we all buying presents for each other or so else just wanna make some nice eats or something? I'm not fussed.,Yeah get <Name> something but don't worry about me so much. Just hanging and eating food and stuff is good enough for me!,Do you know if mum is getting me something?,Yeah nice one so I don't have to get her something?,That's why I was I was asking,I'll talk to her about it,Yeah,Coz we're all old now don't need more stuff,Heard about that,Yeah get outta dodge for a bit,Even if it with Fiona,Lawl,When was the last time she went on a holiday though?,Kinda nice,Ps what you're doing for <Name>is super cool, yore a really good person,Do ya wanna go in the Kris Jringle with <Name>'s family?,Kris Kringle!,Yeah figured as much. We can do bath stuff,I need funky socks,<Name>'s getting me a reverb kit,And I got her a kitchen aid,Well the Aldi version,We both told each other exactly what we wanted,Long term relationships rule,Relative to my huge monogamous stints then yeah,Im a sea horse,Pregnant loyal and gender fluid,Moose coz of your stupid moose face,I wanna choose again I'm a bear,I'm a wild brumby steppin cross the plains for every journeying towards ever changing goals with the only constant my impending death,Just spouting nonsense as usual,Anyway I gotta go to bed,Late as,Pizza high,Night,some CASH,I dunno, minmal, lots of spots for cards etc, thin so can fit in back pocket,The iconic? Asos?,I've got a really shit head cold, and have been thinking about <name> a bit coz its the holidays.,Yeah this period definiteyly makes you aware f what you have, and inversely what you don't have. Can see why it has the highest suicide rate of any time of year.,I know, it knocked me out,i feel like absoulte shit 24 hours a day,yeah, achey body sucks. I need a bath,I dont know where the mucus ends and i begin,Shit man,Baths rule,Feel free to come hang and be sick bastards tonight with em f ya want,Yup,I'm old now,I'm picking up <Name> from daycare then nothing,Come round if ya want,We can order pizza,Or make soup,Or order soup,oh gawd,,I don't know,My pocket did,I also accidentally friend requested some random,I'm quitting smoking and also getting fit so rode 10k this morning coz I'm the best,Hey where did you get your cool bike light?,Sik,I rode 15k this morning! Day 3 with no fags,I'm way fitter than I thought,I just need a keep it up!,Smoking fuvjs with your energy so bad,Yeah but at least you get outta the house and work on your feet and stuff,I got this fitness tracker on my phone and it's really addictive,Like you track your heart rate and activities and food and stuff for,And set yourself goals and shit,It's pretty lame but it's totally working,You'll get motivated again,I'll keep bragging to you,I'm pretty proud of my progress already,I'm replacing cigarettes with exercise,I could barely ride for like half an hour the other day,I know you poor bastard,It's like a living mirrir,Mirror,Is this me running into the park?,Done,<Name>missed a video chat with you.,Woops,Suck at phones,Redid me studio and it's working like a charmola,I dunno coz I'm cooj,Cool,Geez,$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$,Unlucky,Recording a demo to send to you now,Oh man <Name> says I'm not allowed to talk about exercising in front of her anymore because it makes her feel like shit about herself but it was really helping to motivate me and now I feel like I am doing all this stuff alone,Like I'm pushing myself really hard every day trying to get fitter and distract myself from all the shit and whenever I talked to her about it she's like 'oh yeah great',Yeah fair call,Yeah but it's more important to be able to boost than what they actually sayt,Or just saying out loud,Don't really need validation just helps motivate me,Cooool,Tell her to look up em on Google Drive I wanna listen!,Put them,Sweet,Nice one! I'm going for a run tonight I think after <Name> is in bed but we walked around all afternoon at Sherbrooke forest,Well ya know, a jog,I've been practicing in the backyard,Lol,couch to 5k?,Man that was actually pretty good,I can run farther than I thought I could,I ran up to a park near Bell Street and ran around it for a bit and then ran back,Had to walk a few times but not that bad,Totally the best way to get fit fast though. I ran for half an hour and was fucked,when did you do running?,I cant remember,crazy pants,I remember now,I actually really liek running,it seems liek something I could do for half and hour a day taht wouldnt impact on my life too much but would be good fo rme,Its so good being able to breathe properly,2 weeks without fags and I feel 26 again,I mean 25,serioauly I felt like an old man,it was kinda fucked,just run around the block a few times,within!,is that like a junk food cave?,yeah he was pretty funny,fick I got a new piece of music gear but its from 1998 and I had to update it and it was sooooo slow and finicky,took me like 2 hours,it was like, upload code at 1kb per second,and I was liek FARK,mehh we're just spoiled with computing power,Imagine if it took 2 hours to turn on your phone,that would suck SOOO BAD,just would never turn it off,yeah you had to want it,something broke in me the day I could access all information whenever I wanted,me too,emptiness,most things people end up doning with their lives are,but I dont think it is in your case,you are giving something to someone they havent seen before,Me too, Mad blockages at the moment,I think its okay to jsut take some time out and breathe,I need material,and the best way to do that is get some objectivity,there is literally no rush,that is probably one of the only benfits to self directed art,That was inscrutable,Soz was playing muzak,Kinda,Did Kim ever upload those Trax?,Cool blasters,PS I'm pretty much ready for you to come sing vocals on breakdown,Want me to send?,Well we will finish this one first and then see how we go ey?,OMG,forgot about that gem,uploading to googlie drive,I reckon the production is pretty much thtere, jsut needs not my voice,   "literally jus tput it in there so youd know when to sing,so lackluster,mainly about productio values at this point,tried to get it super coked up,COLAAA,yes,it feels expensive,nah,who cares,not liek im doing any of that stuff anymore,closest thign I get to coke is coffee and a long walk,facebook sucks at tone,anyway I gotta run and go to bed,L8TORZ,L8TORZ,L8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZL8TORZ,Here disk I transcribed them,Dik,Heh,Yeah she seemed okay. Socks got g to the hospital,Uhuhuh,Haha yeah,He's a bit sweet and sneaky,Movie recommendations for tonight?,Remind me to get <Name> a birthday present,I've been smashing on optimo by liquid liquid sometimes,Actually new york noise in general is pretty good,The compilation,But liquid liquid are like made of running,Donna summer,Giorgio moreover!,MORODER,What a degenerate,And dogfighting and barbituares,Barbituates,Nah Russell brand pre heroin,I want a fag,Why do we have to be virtuous and body Conscious,\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d,Fair call just chill a bit I reckon,Rest up and put on some nice clothes and makeup and stuff,Cool bath maybe,Have a shit ton of water,Sweet where was it,Cute,Nice one,Cool looks good shaded,Hm maybe I dunno let me think about it for a bit. Might clash with <Name>'s work schedule a bit,I need to buy <Name> a birthday present plz remind me,I k no ow\ude25,Yeah good call CBF at the moment though,Ohhhhh,My brain don't work,I really want a cigarette and Heaps of beers for some reason,Nopo,I'm gunna after <Name>'s in bed tonight,I dunno some sort of brooch or clip or something,Like etsy styles,She has mentioned that she wants something like that,What would you buy her,Cooooo,Yeah I lknls brooches don't really sound that romantic but I mean like something cute she can pin on her dress or something,Oooooo,Yeah default want something handmade and boast able,Also something not easy to lose because she loses things all the time,She said she wants like gorman aesthetics. Minimal geometric shapes and stuff that might go with the dresses and stuff she has been wearing lately,Earrings and necklaces,Oh shiiiiiiiiiiii,Onto it tonight,We ended up watching a mooovie,In like Flynn that's my favorite moooovie",""""""""""" "Lol,I'm shaping up for a new EP. I can feel it,Juices flowibg,Random sparks of inspiration,Fucking unpredictable,This one is gunna be dark and confessional,More experimental but with a few dancers,Aye, sounds rough bud,Awe bummer,Fair call,I gotta buy <Name> a present today for suresies,Trying to motivate myself to go for a run,Maybe if I put on exercise clothes I'll feel more motivated,Remember the pond is much bigger and more competitive, plus they have a different culture and humor over there,His style is more conventional,Anyway this has inspired me to go running. I'll be back in half an hour,Ooh yeah did really well today,5times around the 600m track,With little walks in between,Getting fitter,Both of us,So sweaty tho,nice,feel good?,what would the type of earrings <Name> can wear be called,post back or the ones with the big hooks?,yeah but not that stretched,like3mm or something,   "could she where these?,okay,is this cool\   "are these cool?\   "the hardtofind ones?,oh yeah shit,damn I really liked those,I wonder how big the studs are,   "ok that can be part one,which one though?,I really like the first one but I think <Name> might like #3,   "the for earrings? she said she liked them,yeah I will,har,   "are these nice?,   "these are kinda cool,and would go with the other ones,I like middle ones,I actually really like confetti ones though,might get those and then confetti party,done,now just a card and I'm outta the hot water,should I get them sent to you so she doesn't accidentally open them?,alright cool,whats your address again?,actually I'll ship them to myself,she doesnt open my mail thank fuck,nah I'll send to myself that way itll be easier,if you see any brown paper just banging about grab it for us willya?,oh cool, I'll get it off you next time I see you,I got her confetti necklace and earrings,I hope she likes them,I think she will actually,yeah I did,that one,they kinda go together right,douvt shed wear both at same time though,shes not huge on accessories,alrighty all ordered now I jsut sit back and chill,thank fuck I finally bought her something,was getting to the point where it would have been too late for shipping,thanks for helping,now I'm chilling and having coffee lunch,that was wierdly stressful for me,Oh shit wonky one of <Name>'s presents has arrived hopefully the other one shows tomorrow,Also was too hot to go get a card today so I am pretty much just handing her her present,Coz I have card and shit just laying around,Not everyone is a zine artiste,Dingus,Yeah I know but he's in bed,Oh well I'll wing it,Yeah I thought of that but I don't have anything rigid enough for a card,All I have is flimsy ass paper,Reckon I could cut up a cereal box and cover it with paper?,Woah,We did grow up in the same house,Cereal boxes were always seen as valid presents,Mothers day, birthdays,Cereal box cards,What could I stick on the outside,A bunch of stickers and jazz,Good she frigging love sit thank fuck,No more tgumvs,Thumbs,Yep,Pretty fucked eh,Not that much of a surprise to me tbh, he looked it last time I saw hin,Still sad though,Yeah me too,Don't invest more than you can emotionally I say,Yeah, Jezz gave me my guitar and stuff and was really good when I was a teenager,Like a good chunk of the reason I stuck to music really,I'm so sick of everything being so hard all the time,Just take it as easy as you can,Yeah I'll try,Oh good one,Going grocery shopping and housework day today so distracted I spose,Yeah I dunno,Yeah,That's nice,who?,oh <Name> davis,cooo,yeah shes real nice,Poop,Boo,Lame,Yeah sounds like ya need it,Hi,Oh fuck no,<Name> saw and screaming,Just kidding","" "Kkk,Kko,Gunna start wearing Polo shirts now that'd my jams,I'm getting a new look matey,Don't care was talking about me,Lol jks,Nice one,Chinos maybe boat shoes nar,Can't dress like a scumbag forever,Plus need to be casual without wearing t-shirts all the time,Yeah why is it that women are allowed to change how they look all the time but it's really strange for men,Yeah me too,Started with tshirts,Then sneakets,Then smart casual jacket,Then Polo shirt,Gawsh,Can't help it use tiny crumbling self esteem so low need token changes,Identity,Goodjab,I'm watching that documentary on the making of apocalypse now. Your ideas can't be too ambitious,Yeah man you can dry it even,What time were you thinking of coming round,Lawl,Cool yeah you can come a bit later if you want coz <Name> is gunna be here for a bit before work you can come at like 3 If you want,\ude25\ude25\ude25\ude25\ude25,Yah,Dangright,Chokit sammich,U have to clean him though,Nah,So can mine,jero,Yeah that would be really good thanks cleegs,Nice one,oh yeah I've heard his stuff but never seen him live,Kkk,Sloll,Lesdoit,Are you home? Gimme a ring,Oh nothing just hanging loose. Want me to come by your work? What's it called again?,Sick ill be therr in 15,In Coburg on bike,Yeah sorry had to run. Really needed to get a start on my grant proposal,PS can I have a peek at any proposals you've done for structure fun?,tanks,Cool thanks so much I'm gunna game a switch tomorrow,Give em a squizz,Whoops,My phone doesnt get my vocabulary,Gee whizz,Yeah it does all the time,I'm just happy to get to see him and talk to him even if it is a subconscious construction,But it does make me more aware of the hole in my life I spose,Yeah makes sense. It's just your way of working through things. I just shove it down deep into myself and plaster a fake grin on my face and scr am internally while people complain about how their job isn't fulfilling enough or they need to stop taking so many pills cause they are having too much fun,Man being social at this age is just people complaining or bragging to each other and waiting for their turn to speak,Bossos,I had an idea for my video art assignment and have started writing a real grant proposal for a group exhibition at Kings in July,So very motivated at the moment and finally pulling myself out of this lack of confidence and depression I think through the power of work,I really need a exhibit this year,Yeah just RMIT creative funding,Can I get you to look over it once I'm done?,That's good!,That's cool I have <Name> brain all the time,havent wathed it yet,   "Looka t my propsal!!!,give me feedback please,its my first ever proposal so I probably got a bunch of shit wrong,okay cool, I thought it was a bit unbalanced,I'm super research based at the moment which is probably biasing shit,okay, yeah, so would I put that in the outline?,I guess that is kidn of in the outcomes part,okay,I think the closer it looks to an actual proposal the better I'll do,like, the headings are the criteria,yeah and its fairly hard to explain to people so I think it needs more of a research element,So I should maybe have asecond paragraph in the outline saying, this project will be exhibited in a gallery space, with projected vieo and sound works playing, and antennas picking up electromagnetic activity in the room,okay cool I'll try and cut down context a bit,yeah I figure that. Having heaps of trouble writing in active tense today for reason,some,its kind of a hard sell because I doubt many peopl ehave heard what electromagnetic stuff sounds like,like I'm trying to sell them a world which they don't really know about,How bout: The exhibition will fill the space with light and sound, with projected video reacting to sound work, and antennas picking up the magnetic character of its surrounding.,The exhibition will fill the space with light and sound, with projected video reacting to sound work, and antennas picking up the magnetic character of its surrounding. Audiences will unwittingly participate as the magnetic fields emitted by phones/cameras are amplified and fed back into the space.,cool,obviously will edit it,Can choose their level of engagement,The exhibition will fill the space with light and sound, with projected video reacting to sound work, and antennas picking up the magnetic character of its surroundings. Audiences will either actively or passively participate with the magnetic forces within the room, as interference emitted by phones/cameras are amplified and fed back into the space.,cool, yeah, if I stick that at the top it sounds a bit mroe accessible,thanks so much!,but the rest of the stuff looks alright? did you look at the budget and jazz?,cool, I think I'm pretty much done. Its due tuesday, so I have plenty of time to tweak.,yeah, its not super duper complicated,yeah, I'm sure if I go for link arts even if I don't get funded I'll get good feedback for next round,link arts closes april 20, and all I need to do is get letters of support and I'm there,I just felt a bit wierd cause I had never done a proposal before,and we didnt have a lot fo guidance really,haha, I don't think he is expecting us to pull out the stops but I always kind of go overboard,coz of anxiety,plus I kind of wanted to make something I could possibly pitch to actual funding bodies in the future with some tweaking,otherwise wtf is the point of assignment,YAHOO,Woah cool,Nice,Yeah I spose having an anxiety attack today,Okay,Really don't  need this right now!,I'm. Not avoiding her,I'm just not actively engaging with her,That's cool.,Okay,really fucking anxious today,Its a compond of a lot of stuff,my uni work has really slowed down, I gotta clean up the whole house for tomorrow, <name>'s ashes. Library books gotta go back. unfinished projects galore. General feeling of doom and that this shit is unending,friendships are all dying,isolatedness,ok,im at research stage still with most of my projects and I cant think properly today,the house isnt that bad I spose. I've already been cleaning all day but its doesnt look as great as I'd hoped,nah just so we can find everything we need,we have tomorrow too,I'm really scared I'm becoming too obscure,liek I havent really dont anythign with my talent,I'm so sick of social media tbh,and constant updates,yeah its making me feel like shit when other people are doing art at the moment and I'm pretty incapable of doing anything,not you,like people from school,I fucking hate envying people,its so unconstructive,I feel like people are putting on shows, gettign grans, exhibitions etc because they are going out there and doing stuff and have friends in the industry etc and I don't have any friends and I have no value in the industry,I'm a straight white dude, my opinion isnt valid,I'm no longer relevant,at 26,I don't have a community,yeah and I don't really put that stuff on my facebook sa much,yeah, maybe ill take a sabbatical and restructure my image a bit,I'm always doing stuff I gues I've felt liek its boring or techinical or too embryonic for people to see a lot of the time,liek I started my blog but I can't stick with it,yeah that was the idea, but I've gotten so used to just completeing and archiving without nececesarily releasing or documenting its really ahrd to break that habit,I mean its really hard to think that someone might care after noone has for a really long time,Its just been a bit of a damaging last couple of weeks because we;ve been having discussions in classes about the realisites of the sound art world and its the same as the fucking live music cliques that I was trying to extricate myself from. People give grants to people they know, its all based upon confidence and I have basically been broken down in confidence since <name> died.,confidence and consistency are the eys,keys,and I have neither at the moment,yeah I know but its like they are shining a light on something which is quite unattainable,I just feel so fake,I'm not that great at faking it either,I mean, this anxiety has fucing floored me,I couldn't even think about playing a live show now,k, later,I'm alright. Having dinner. I'll give ya a call later on?,What happened,"Dropped",Just take the midguard off,Multitool,I always keep a multitool on me at all times even in the bath,Haha I was thinking about that,Slol,Yeah bot too bad <Name> cheered me up a bit,Just chillen gunna watch some. Netflix,OMG cutEBB,PS I'm leaving my stuff here for <Name>to use if he wants to make some bests,Beats,You should coz it's a super simple and fun setup,And he'll get kicks no rpg can give him,Hey don't worry too much about the house and cat and stuff, we don't really have many rules other than what we told ya so don't stress too much just chill and have a relax!,PS.    "moreland is microgranting your application for the fringe festival,you should do a squishface event thing,get some dosh,yeah,its incentive,plus I think moreland is doing development grants for work/events too,Yeah or a series of workshops or something or ya know some sort of sponsored residency where an artist comes and works with you guys for a bit or like a stall outside where you guys do drawing amir something during the festival,That's like the most eligible program for the Moreland grants,nah but if youre on our computer all the bbc stuff is on stan,micheal mosley,cool,oh wait that was a statement not a question,hahah yes,twindle the low pass filter knobs,Hold down load and press one of the numbers to lead sick patterns,U lan\u2651\u2650,Haha best descriptors,haha turn down the little knob below the low pass filter knob that says mg 1 or something,yeah,thatll make it sound less alieny,hahahaha change the drum beat,dude yes,According to,Do you aggree,Boss,Tru,Well yeah you're not gunna just be cured one day. You are gaining more self awareness which is always good,Well I guess if you are talking about new problems maybe you have some of the <name> stuff under control,Yeah,I look at it sometimes,Hasn't expired yet,Haha,Don't worry I suck at taking photos too,But it's coz I've got googly eyes,Too naughty,   "You could totally do this,Also    "It's only VPS3 which is like entry level for public service. You should totally go for it, you seem to meet all the selection criteria,I am a crusty old lady,Been drinking too much up in Canberra now I feel like a Frickin old man,Need to detox at home,Plus central heating gives me mad tension headaches,For some reas I needa be sitting in the cold to concentrate,Havent done any study up here either,Need fresh veg,Actually just a fat bacon eating turd burger,Trying to read about David Lewiss identity theory and keep getting distracted,Haha nah it's all cool I Smashed it,Cool,Why isn't she going viral,Der,It's the one thing I can't roast,Oh yeah shit pop thanks for the reminder,Yeah me too. Don't worry I'll smash it this year and get her some Cadbury roses from the 7/11,Wilted baby's breath that smell like petrol,Yeah I'll go in thurs,What time ya think ING of coming round today?,oh, well I start class at 1:30. Did <Name> say that shed be home?,oh okay sorry,well yeah, I got class at 1:30 and <Name> left this mornign to do an assignment assumedly all day, so I reckon if you could get here at 12:30 it would be great,otherwise I might just skip class today if you got <Name>stuff to do,alright cool, maybe I could get mum to come around for the first couple of hour instead?,like I feel like today would be the day to ask her,ill ask her what shes doing, it would be good if you didnt have to rush and I didnt have to leave class early kinda thing,okay coolios. I'm gunan message mum,facebook isnt good at tone I am not being bitchy or anything just trying to figure out today,yep, I thought it would be OK because <Name> had an assignment which she was supposed to work on last night so she could get it in by midday and then she was coming home for the hour gap between when I left for class and you got here between 12:30-1:30 but it turns out that she is going to have to give in the assignment late because she had an anxiety attack last night and had to binge watch tv so I realised I had to ask you to come at 12:30 if you could otherwise I would be late to class. Plus she only left like an hour ago so I doubt she will be back to watch <Name> in the gap. So I actually didn't know that I would need you to come by at 12:30 until this morning when <Name> told me how long she would be. The only reason I needa go to class today is because my lecturer accidentally switched semesters and so all of the assignment information for the class is invalid and its week 9 and my final assignment will be worth 80 percent of the mark and I still don't know what it is so I gotta find out.,I know, massive shitshow that is my life,DONT DO IT,nah do it if you want, but its really frigging stressful,and thankless,just like parenting or being a millenial,you wouldnt know because you are a boomer,oh no, what ya gunna do? offer me a lease for one of your investment properties and then gradually price me out of the rent?,offer me a job at your cafe at x amount of hours and then slowly take the hours away while still expecting maximum availability?,mate, you think I can afford rego?,been buying too many frivolous online purchases and smashed avos,,,later stooge,bonzo,Bonzolas,Ey dood u working?,nah,unless you pump me full of macaroons,what should I make for dinner,I have no food,I think I might hgave eggs and spinach and cheese,was thinkign of making an aomelette,haha,most mundane exchange in the entire world,did I tap into girls only club,vibe,what will I have for dinner apart from a panic attack,no time for PIE,I'm gunna go check what I have,Oh yeah I had a sun-dried tomato, spinach and parmesan omelette,<Name> had toast and plain egg omelette,<Name> isn't eating his omelette,Wha,How did she know of you,At northland grocers,Haha will next time,So good Erik has gone all bougie and now we only go to butchers and markets and stufg,I'm in pretentious foodie heaven,We are spending all the money we use dot spend on eating out buying really good ingredients,North lands,Opposite aldi,Hey how'dls it going?,Cool,When did he go down,Shit dogs,You should Probs get him up soonish or he won't sleep tonight,Yeah just pop in maybe and rustle around a bit,He might start yelling at you in which case give him a cuddle,Haha,Okay he is really asleep,Haha,Tonight will be fun \ude1e\ude1e\ude1e\ude1e,Haha oh no,Just wait and see what happens,Getting stuff today,Lush bath bombs and #1 mum mug,Thanks for reminding me BTW you are a good sis,haha me neither,That's a great idea,I'm gunna go out n tomorrow and get some ingredients. Do you reckon mum might like stew?,Yeah would be big business time for places like your work. Cool did you wanna get some ingredients or should I?,Yep I'll go shopping tomorrow,Did ya wanna bring salad stuff? I'm pretty bad at making salads,Thanks cleegs,I'm making a super Yum stew in the slow cooker for tomorrow,I'll call it ragu then,Haha,PS are you free at any pin t next week to take me for a little drive and maybe help me do some filming for this video project I am doing for school?,Dickball,Good call,Man I really want to go to a gig tonight but broke and sick,Haha you can't assume it's okay because it's winter,Classic noon mistake,Noob,Still not as cold as a fridge,Probs not. Feel pretty sick and gotta be up early to make stew. Plus Louis is gunna be there and I still have his tape player and its a whole thing,Well I've got the invisibility bit already being a dad in me 20s,Haha,Close enough,Yah,I think so,Okay cool I'll check if we have sultanas,yeah it was super nice,haha,its coz we were at my place,had the leftovers today,so good,ill have to make a veggie stew with braised mushrooms or something,yeah its good for that,yeah it was super tasty too,I'm hoping we are moving away from only having roast meats on occasions,lol,coz were super medieval,poop,   "fuck video editing is laborious,Haha luckily learnt keyboard shortcuts,Cool thanks so much I hoped you'd say that. Gunna project in darkened room with fairly loud sound so hopefully will be somewhat immersive,Did you notice anything off?,Cool so I should just step away from it at this point and not worry about editing the shit out of it? That's cool, it's what I was hoping for.,Thanks <Name>, yeah it's a pretty personal work even if it seems fairly detached.,That's cool. I guess it'd about identity and adjustment as much as anything.,Thanks man was really farking scary doing my first video work,So much anxiety,Me too, and it's kinda good I'm pushing myself to do different shit,I'm really glad you enjoyed it, means it must work on some level which means I can do the other emulsion things u have to finish this week!,Haha,Looks like I am eating a bunch of synth cakes,I don't think anyone except me would notice or care,U gave nice shapely arms,Everyone in garbage bags should be modeling watches,So rough,Gotta bring it back to numero uno,I mean who's the girl that everyone buys GB to see,Won't even load on my shit internwt,Nah we had <Name>'s parent teacher interviews last night,It would been alright but we showed duo at 6.30 and ended up seeing the educators at like 8.30,And they were like. He's doing some good shapes and colours,He's doing some good poops,Kind of,They were like he's really fun nd charismatic bit he doesn't listen and laughs at us when we say no,And he just doesn't have down time,Plus he's selling drugs,Haha yeah but it's good for us to have a coordinated action plan,Like there is a purpose to parent teacher ringer views, and bur I feel like they are more for the kids that are there 5 days a week,Where they are actually at daycare half the week so they need insight into their child's development,Haha so many forced smiles,Exactly how I remembered it,   "Kris aware festival at ancient til like Wednesday we should go <Name> n <Name>you and me and see seven samurai or rashomon,Kurosawa,ACMI,Rashomon is on next Friday night at 7 we should go,Neither have I Lolo lol,Rash onion would be a good band name,Yeah was thinking of finagling a night off from <Name> to go see rashomon too,Need kurosawa on big screen,And rashomon is one of my fave movies,Of all time,So much exposure of the mechanics of the human condition,Haha gunna me <Name> sit through seven samurai,Make,Nah I think she likes kurosawa,Either way I got Mary coming round next Friday night so we're going,Gunna semi surprise <Name>. Actually <Name> loves epics,Boss.,Might get him out of the house and into another darkened room staring at a screen,This time he needs to put on pants,Dejour jeans fucking suck unless you are some tree branch hipster who floats inseltead of walks,Seriously I but like 20 buck   <name>   <name>'s jeans now and they don't get holes for like a yeae,The expectation with dejour is that your thighs will never touch or even meet briefly Designed for tiny hipsterz,Not yet, got like 4 assignments due Monday Tuesday so putting my head down with study when not tearing Fran,Wanna be in a place where I can binge watch and not feel guilty,Rearing,Yeah fuck that. I'm gunna give it my full attention,Maybe me and <Name>should just watch shows toggteht and you and <Name> can watch/not watch shows together,Women are just better at multitasking than dudes,It's been proven by science,Because your mind was creatively stimulated,Scary place to be,Haha yeah just look at the ceiling and think of England,Squat,Nostalgia trips,Yeah they are cheap and pretty good,Specially the 2 for deals,I haven't worn a hole in the crotch either,Haha we're heading to North lands now too I think,Maybe we'll catch you buying junk food,Coz we're getting Zaatar first lol,Man I totes need a new computer but student startup scholarship doesn't come around until like the start of July, which is at the start of next semester.,Hashtag pointless whining,You can have my old one when I upgrade if you have qnt. It's totally fine just need more power for video editing and junk,Okay cool we when I upgrade I'll wipe it and you can have it for a bit,Yar,I'll just wipe it and then torrent it for ya,Fuck thank God I finally got an idea for my final composition,Gath<Name>g all the recordings I made from 2007 to now,And editing them so you can only hear the intros,Like the first four seconds of the song,And all the little whispers and breaths and toe taps and count ins at the start of songs,So it's like a constant state of anticipation for a song which never starts,Allegory for my life really,There was a winter which I had a cold so all my song intros had sniffles and wheezes,And as time went on I learn to get more silent at the beginning, so it gets quieter toward the middle,its super personal,its so long already,I might have to do 3 movements or something,up to savage nobles recordings, just the banter in between songs,its so awkward I love it,its like a fucking weird poem,haha sorry doing some work,are you at the cafe today?,Whoops went home forgot <Name> had work,   "Rough Edit, have a listen with headphones on whne ya can,I Know I Seems abstract but was actually a really personal work to make for some reason,It's like a primer of my musical/performing  life,Lol,Yes,I'll book now just gotta find our ACMI membership,Seven samurai,Oh well it's on next Thursday night and I was thinking of going,Jajajahaja,<Name> can Probs watch <Name> maybe we can have brother sister date,Shops didn't Mena to send passive aggressive thumbs up,Whoops,I forgot how to use me comoturrphone,Thats the first recording I ever made, tape that <name> gave me, I think I was like five or is.,six,yeah,haha, well its meant to be a bit of a story of my life through sound artifacts,haha yeah,thats from the first savage nobles gig,yeah it was really interesting listening to the live recordings, to the non musical parts,and the banter,well ya know, I don't really make personal pieces because there is a lt of raw stuff happening in my brain,I;ve been feelign really good. It was a pretty cathartic piece to make,man the part with <Name> is so cute,was trying to show how contrasting/conflicting my life can be sometimes,liek the music stops for a bit, and <Name> and <name> come in,and then just silence,I mean, the part with dnes funeral,maybe I should put more of the speech in,I dunno. I am conflicted about that part,yeah, like perfomative and personal,yeah, well a different part of me,thats okay, wanted input,I think I'm almost ready to exhibit some of this junk,Hey were on our way. Let me know what you guys are doing,Kool,We gotta go scatter dens ashes this weekend I reckon. I'm ready,Kool,Totally,I dunno I suppose we go up to Lake Elizabeth and find a nice tree,Try and head off in the morning and then get there round lunch.,Yep,Sunday? Dunno. Whatever day suits yo I guess as you'll be doing all the driving and stuff,Should check the weather,Not Sposed to rain in the otways on Sunday,Not 100 percent where we should go.,Stevenson Falls or Lake Elizabeth have some nice walks,Feel like we should do a bit of a bushwalk,Nothing intense, like a twenty minute thing,Nah we can park and then walk,Park at the campground and then take a path,Lake Elizabeth and Stevenson Falls are pretty close to each other, as is skews Creek I think,I'll Google maps it,2 hour drive,If we try and head off early, like 9.30ish, then we can have a coffee stop in between and break up the trip,Yeah u remember stevensons Falls,<name> loved camping up there,Think he'd be happy,Thanks for driving. I reckon Sunday will be the go,I'll message mum,What should I do tonight? Feel like watching a movie that <Name> wouldn't watch with me,Or I could play fallout,Or do dishes,Oooooo,Gunna make a cup o tea and have a movie date with myself.,Ooh baby,Hey do ou thibnk maybe you could come over and watch <Name> on the 24th of Ausgust at night? Denholm's birthday drinks and I wanna go cause i havent gone in like 3 years,24th of june,why the hell did I say auagust,okay cool ill ask mary,It'd kinda be nice if you could od it, I mean I can ask mary but she and lachlan come over a lot at night ot watch him and they go to bed at like 11:30,haha, they nearly fell asleep on th ecouch on friday,thanks so much!,oh so not liek one of your best and oldest friends who you havent celeb rated with in over 2 years,ahaha,dont play this game with me,I'm dangerous,Learnt from the best,Raised on a diet of guilt, shame and osso bucco,Cause you were raised ot be triggered by it,yeah we just channel that guilt into making ou do stuf for us,its the perfect crime,its cause you are innately lazy except if you are motivated by guilt and shame,haha,shame gets me out of bed in the morning,and lulls me into blissful sleep at night,everybody's lazy,thats why they are constantly plaming responsibility off on one another in an endless circle,so nobody ends up fixing their own problems and just kinda half assedly deals with other's problems while secretly resenting them and sabatoging themselves in a cycle of guilt and shame which ends only with the sweet relief of death,nah I didnt have time, <Name> came home and we watched ambassadors,with the dudes form peep show,its actaully pretty good,ill watch next time I'm free,PS wanna come visit <name> with me next week?,we can take the tram so you dont have to drive across town,yeah trams rule,she messaged me the other day and was like "you all done with uni lets hang out plz",should probs go catch up, has been a while,just freaks me out when I see those dudes and they must see <name> in me,or like they are expecting too,Fields strange,feels,Feels the same way as when Grandpa called me steven,yeah totally, I'm not saying that, maybe its subconscious. Grandpa did too,Yeah, he was yelling at me for something,I was like 17 or something,I think I was being cheeky,Yeah,Yeah, he called me Steven then,thats when I'm talking about,He was tellign me off and freudian slipped,anyway, I feel a bit of that vibe with <name> and mag and stuff,I think its a natural thing that people try and do,but it spooks me,Yeah running trope,Nah, we get help, and <Name> will get help,all suceeding generations wil,just the old guard floudn<Name>g in pain and bullshit forever,fuckin crumbling behind a stiff upped lip,Its just being okay with not being okay,Mum, and Gma and Gpa fuck up becuase they try and pretend like nothing is wrong and never deal with nayhting,whereas we were like "wow this is fucked up" and went through a heap of shit, and we are doign better,I mean objectively it looked like we werent coping but we were working through all those feelings, sitting with them,Yeah, grandpa needs to realise how little he knows about the world nowadays,hes so bitter,its fucked,Crass as,Yeah, I mean props to <Name>probs didnt bat an eyelid,Grandpa probably has been holding onto a lot of shit that he was waiting for <name> to die to say,Like, I think he blames <name> for like 90 percent of the shit that went wrong in the last 30 years,including the Global financial crisis and the rise of global conservatism,and the damn price of bread nowadays,I think grandpa has really wierd ideas about family cause of his dad,plus he grew up in the frigging 60s,like, was a man in,That just his way,I feel like I should say something like that,Thats true, but ya know,  a 4 hour round trip with a crotchety two year old to go get told what a deadshit your deceased father was.,thats wonder why I dont go up that often,ha,You arent even half as fat as they were at your age though,its so hypocritcal,its cause they are ex obese,they are always the worst,I think they just feel pretty out of touch/ out of control of us so they feel liek they needa weigh in wiht these unfounded opinions every time we go down,yeah true, I love them and dont want them to die,I'm not being mean just unpacking my feelings about them,Yeah you said. Should go up and see them while I'm on holidays,just been trying not to stretch myself too thin is all,its been working,I got through uni this semester and I'm feeling liek I got some realy clarity on my situation,liek I can finally see a future,and what I need to do to get there,haha, fuck off,watch my kid while I get drunk,I'm still 26!,Kid in my class the other day asked me how old I was an dwas genuinely flabbergasted, they were lille " I could swear you were like 23",and I was like totes fam,yolo,Yeah but it is the age when my life changed forrever,so if people think I am 23 then I haven't wasted any time professionally,so <Name> was just a speed bump instead of a major detour,and its not sad that I'm halfway through my first undergrad,and I didnt waste like 3 years of my adult life getting pissed,Orson welles made citizen kane when he was 21,haha I know, but ya know thats the shit that goes ion in my brain when somebody says I look 23,I'm like "I STILL HAVE TIME",plus I'm waaay smarter than I was at 23,and fifteen times smarter than when I was 3,I would smash it,that would be the best,"I'm your thinktank baby",what does that even mean???,crazy kids,I would also be impressed a their knowledge of my back catalogue,Nah I feel better after making that big composition, I'm done so much stuff already. Just needa collate it and get in into a presentable form for mass consumption eg artist website,oh right taht would be cool I'd book you to do merch,you could ride them coat tails,man I wish I had some coat tails to ride right now,needa make some powerful friends but have forgotten how to make friends,I'm pretty sure you just facebook stalk them and dont add them until way after you actually talk to them,Yeah youd probs just drink too much and hang out near her awkwardly,O rjust stand there while she was talking to someone else waiting for her to keep talking to you,man I feel like you shoudl go to that. I wish I had more people than kmary and you to rely on for this kinda stuff,frickin whack,why doesnt mum have a car,lame,Helen's all like "my night times are for me",but to be fair sahe takes him out heaps,I dunno, its just sad. I want to go out more an dnow that <Name> is starting full time work I really cant see there being that many oppurtunities,like. I feel really isolated, and wanna go to gigs and exhibition openings and talks and films and stuff,but I can't, and now noone asks me to go to stuff becuase I never come,Yeah well we were thinking abotu slinging mary some $$$ to sweeten the pot,she could defs use it,yeah but we wont have that much more, ya know,I dunno. Anyway just venting dont need solutions,yah yah,Anyway I'm gunna go do some dishes so much fun,thanks for chattz. I'll see ya sunday,That sounds great!,Cumberlqnd River is 3 hours drive whereas stevensons Falls is 2,What map are you using?,That's pretty heavy driving all day,Specially coz it's the long weekend so there might be traffic,Yeah, the otways is nicer and usually a bit less crowded. We might have to have to use all for a bit to find a secluded spot,Walk for,Okay cool. Whats the earliest you reckon we could get going?,Cool. Yeah that seems like a good time.,How's ya car doing? Oil and tyres and junk all good?,Kool,Good one,We should really try and head off round 9.30-10 tomorrow so it's not too grueling. You cool to come by and pick me and the ashes up?,Nah, <Name> seemed pretty pooped so staying home to look after <Name>,Yeah don't feel obligated,Hellyes. I'm regist<Name>g a domain name tonight like a boss. Gunna get my website up this week I think then redo Facebook insta next week,You have more of a targeted approach than you realize I think,It works!,Maybe you should hire your services out to artists or something,I mean think about how much money artists have,It's an untapped market,Haha,Fark, how do I even classify my work,I'm still experimenting with heaps of mediums and themes,Nice,www.liamfpower.com,still not finished at all,but basic structure,haha, i think it might be. want simple,its just a unifying hub with a couple of examples of work and about page,something I can tell people quickly that has links to all my shit on it and looks pretty cool,where the hell did you hear I got amazing marks,somethign positive about me on gurlz only club?,wonders will never cease,saw <name> today,shes good. I gotta go to bed now though sorry <Name> sleep early,Cool we will have to take <Name> I think, or I can ask mary,Yeah, would definitely be easier with the astra. I'll ask eri,<Name>,Haha,more stuff up on website,oh nice,yeah pretty sure the mobiel site doesnt work.,yeah fair call,haha, autosuggestion,www.liamfpower.com,its pretty hard to recall,arial?,the text below works?,Oh yeah right, I'll take a look at it,Yeah didnt want to be too text heavy,like an extended business card,ya know, ramblings is what blogs are for I reckon,refresh,I changed it,Thanks bruv,Mum was gunna come round and we were gunna make nachos if ya wanna joon,Join,Yeah nice pop round,Only if you pop round though none of this stopping by,Good. One so casual,It's in the name ffs,Nah very vulnerable situation actually,Cool see ya soon,Oh woops,Yeah just hanging with <Name>. Maybe we could swing by later?,Noice. I'll see how <Name> goes. When you working til?,Kool I'll let you know when we get close by,Yeah soz we had to run f an was getting to be in one of those moods,Haha good,Everybody looked charmed,Not too shabs,Was good catching up with everyone,Had plenty of drunken dnms,Now don't need to go to another party for like a year,Everybody wants a baby,When they are eon pingers,Like 3 separate people were asking me about the practical steps needed to become a parent,<name> and Lucy especially,I wouldn't be surprised,<name> would be an awesome dad,I wish he was my dad,Lucy seemed into it too,I don't even think they were on drugs,Fuckin everybody was asking about it actually,How'd that go,What the shit,Just be like I don't like rats,Holy fudgehole,I feel like you are justified in being like oh sorry I don't like them but it's totally fine if you do,Oh I see,The ol <Name>mix of stupidity and awkwardness,Haha,Just kidding,Obliviousness and awkwardness,It's a dangerous mix,Did you make some connex,Haha,Most of the peeps were like, is he talking yet?,And I was like wtf you know absolutely nothing about human development,How can you be a human and know nothing about how got to this pint,Point,People suck at being humans,I however rule,I know but I haven't seen those dudes in like a year,Coz my dad died and u got mad social anxiety,I,Acute,And now I'm alright kind of,yeah that sounds nice as,Kool see ya at 2 \ude02\ude02\ude02\ude02,Just bear with me I'll see what <Name> is doing,He might need a nad,Nap,He's in a real bad moos today,Just hating lyf,I'm eating morning lasagne,Coz Housewife things,Mam Thyme is the secret ingredient to a good lasagne,Nah it's a great idea,I guess it's early lunchtime,Yum,Congee,How do you make,I got Japanese vurry blocks u should bring over some tofu and we can make tofu curry,That's just rive,Rice,You r just eating a bowl of rice for breakfast,Haha,OMG,You've been working in hospitality too long,Like this morning I had steel cut rolled oats with fresh full cream milk and Australian red gum blend honey with just a hint of Himalayan pink salt thrown in,Yeah a pinch of salt makes it so much better,Like a small pinch,Yeah,What a pro,Yeah dude I love rice,Just it's not really rice porridge it's just a bowl of moist rice,Rice porridge is like congee,What is it?,Woah will have to buy some,OMG,Yeah it's like I have been looking for this Japanese sweet here since a I got back called black thunder,It's actually the tastiest thing ij the world,I can order it online but cbf,Coz as soon as I see the packet I'll just eat em all,So not much point us know having something sent to me that I am going to consume in one min,Lame,Yeah red Bena paste stuff is so hit and miss,of course,you can watch <Name> for a bit and me and <Name>can do ableton lesson if he wants,he can use mine if he doesn't feel like it,yeah I got rice and curry blocks tattoos and carrots just need some tofu and breadcrumbs if u want to do cats or else we can just have stewed tofu,if ya wanna,Haha k,Etsy or shopify,Nice,Slow down,Haha pretty sure not having authentic ingredients was how Japanese curry was made in the first place,Like some dude went to India twenty years ago and had a curry at the train station and is like I am an expert now pretty sure it had Apple and was sweet and not hot,Let me know how it goes!!!!,Yeah I think they use pretty tart apples,Haha dude no wonder it was sweet,Holy frigging shit we've been talking about your curry for four hours I hate the internet,I hate you,Don't make me hate curry,Tough love,So I heard,Your housemates got back to you?,Anyway I gotta go to bed cox <Name> feel sick,Talk tomorrow,The saga continues,Cool,Can you scan them so there's no shadow on the pictures? Feel like it would be a lot cleaner that way?,Looks good otherwise though,Soz it was jtmust the first thing I noticed,Just do the magic wand and then invert it and make it white,Kool,Yeah didn't mean to be critical,Nice looks great,Yeah mum is coming round now so pop by whenever,Kool,Me and mum are gunna go out and get lunch somewhere, we can meet ya somewhere or see ya when we get back,I'm good. jsut cleaning up after yesterday,haha nah its just when you and mum are over my cleaning routine gets outta whack,Heyo we gotta be at Springvale by 1.30 tomorrow, so maybe we should head off from Coburg round 12.15 if we wanna have plenty of time. <Name> thinks she'll have to use the car so we will take yours. Maybe I can ride round to your place at like midday?,Yeah was thinking we could take citylink and I'll just pay the eight bucks,Actually it's like seventeen bucks,Yeah that's a bit of a stretch,Okay well leave at 12. Did you want me to meet you at mums or something?,Alright cool, just trying to streamline cos I don't wanna be late/stressed,Yeah it's quite a slog,Maybe we can stick mum in the back for a little bit? My legs fucking die,Damn tooting,Gunna come to your place instead coz it's easier to ride to. I'll be there in like halfa/45 minutes,Hey what up soldier,I needa get me bike today!!,Haha I won't.,I might pop by round 11,Oh actually <Name> is home sick today so I can't come by I don't think. PS what are you doing tonight? I finally found a laptop for a decent price but the guy is in Kew and is only available after 6. Could you do me a massive favour and give me a lift over east side later?,Can sling you some bucks,Or can fix up my old laptop for you in return,Fuck yeah that would be awesome.,I'll totally owe you one,Like for real,I can probably come to your place and we can get started. It's about a half an hour drive from your place I think,got my results,Yeah, better rthwjni expected,90,89,88,Only did three subjects this semester coz I was  pretty overwhelmed at the start,Thanks! As usual I was like I fucked up this semester but did fine,I know marks don't matter that much in the grand scheme but definitely make some fee better about my self,I mean, practicing artists that I respect are giving me really good marks,Yeah, i reckon I'll actaully be able to do somethign withis degree, nto neccesarrily from marks but by consistently deliv<Name>g high quality work,yeah, I mean obvs not everything I do is great, but I think they can see that I care and I am putting effort in.,most of my lecturers are like, I mark peopl eby the amount of effort they have put in as well,I think theres quite a people coasting through their degree, whichI kind of cant do at my age.,like I have to jusitfy not having a job and getting $$$ and all that jazz,Youth allowance is like 12k a year,which is les than our rent,then again, we would be paying 600 bucks a week in childcare fees if we were both working,so my wage at the shit job I could get would be entirely swallowed up by the costs of me working,haha, exactly,later brah. What do you want me to do about going to Kew later?,okay cool, I'll show up at like 5:45 and we can head off. I told the guy I would be by around 6:30 to kew,Oh I will,lame,pretty sur eif you are an adult you should clean up your house,Later,HOLY FUCKING SHIT,I'm on it now.,its so fast,I am multitasking like a genius,keyboard is so nice to use too,I can't even do typos,I feel like a creative professional living my dreams,Its really good,yeah, here it is at harvey norman\   "2000 buckolos,damn straight,I'm super happy,didnt think I could be this happy about a new computer,I'm like a kid at xmas,Gunna go test it out with my studio in a bit.,yeah its like a quality of life thing,consid<Name>g its something you use every day,seriously thanks so much for driving me. Was totally worth it,not forgetting to help you with your bike sometime this week too,cept for stall on hill with wierd dude,I mean angry dude,did <Name>like his cauliflower thing?,haha thank fark,you totally didnt want to go,hows your sneeziness,Yo is there a way for me to pick up my bike from your place tomorrow? What time do ya start work,Poop,Top early for little ol me. Maybe I'll come by your work and get ye keys and go get it then ride back and give you your keys,cool I'll pop by yoir work in a bit,gotta go get me contacts first,I'll be by in a bit just grabbing the 19,Will do if I'm not in bed by 8,holy shit. I need to go to th hospital today. I coughed and vomited all night, didnt ge any sleep. I coughed so hard I think I bruised my ribcage. I'm such a mess today I need help.,I think I have pnemonia,<Name> jsut left for her job interview and I'VE GOT A HIGH FEVER SO <Name> IS RUNNING WILD,i actually nearly choked on vomit last night,it was the hardest,and I cant find my phone,I think this is the sickest I've ever been,I need my sister and mum,Actually pretty good taday,taking it easy af,I am drinking chicken soup liek water,Yeahhh so good,jsut relaxin,star tuni on wednesday so don't wanna overdo it,I commence my semester's curriculum at a tertiary educational institution on wednesday,you are actually an old black man,Yeah not too bad. Split from class early so I don't have to rush around picking up <Name> in peak hour. Managed to get outta the house at least,HOW ARE,YOU,Omfg and he gets penalized if he says no too right,Fucking hell. Serioulsy gunna look up some call centers jsut send me his resume,   "perfect, im sur ehe could fabricate some experience,northland location,pad it out a bit,send it to <Name> maybe shes like the queen of creative lying,   "Field works?   <name> works there so they hire anybody lol\   "Its actaully not that hard to get a job there,yeah hes probably got a good shot,I might know some supervisors there so can ask around,I mean, its not the best location for where he is living right now, all th emore incentive to move though,feel like night work woudl suit him,he can always shoot his resume through to melsupers@roymorgan.com.au as well, which is the most recent address I have for the cati office,maybe you could ask martin too if he has any work going?,like just something to keep the man off his back. 20 hrs admin or something,seriously ask him all he can do is say no,I got his number, gimma a minute,0407 538 075,Haha, thats the extent of my job knowledge. If I was better at jobs I'd probs have one now lol,Just text him and ask if he knows of. has heard of any entry level work going for <Name>(who he might have met at <name>'s wake), who is just looking for something casual atm,Tell him good luck from me, and dont let the pricks get you down.,Not martin joel,s'ok I been where he is and someone helped me,That's because you are a drama queen,Gotta put fronk in bath,buy <Name>pizza or something tongiht maybe,Yeah A few people have said I should get involved in that,whathe,lol,I am writing an application for next wave,just smashed it out and then I saw the goddamn 7000 dollar budget,I was like Dayum,Putting in an application, why the fuck not,yeah we'll see if I get it,no skin off my nose if I don't,ugh I always get stuck on the budget,maybe I'll sleep on it, I've got til august 7th,can you police me and make me get it in,I got class til 12:30 then hanging with fronk,yeah sounds good. I'll see what <Name> has in store. I'm still a little sick so mightn be the greatest company,defs down for a visit,I'm a cough monster,Do you still have my casio?,Me wanty,Thats cool I have microfiber cloths which I use to wipe dust from things,I am adult,PS <name> sent me a bunch of footage from the golden years, 2005-2006 whcih features you and me and <name> and mum which I should give you,defs in your wheelhouse,Honararium,tax write off,   "<name> gave me jezz's old super 8 tapes on dvd so I cut out the bit with us in it lol,Its super cute,watch it on your computer,Ps <name> says she wants to hang with you,Sweet,Hehe, so cramming stuff into drawers,What am I supposed to be looking at?,OoO,Yeah if there is a spot for keyboard then set it up and he will feel guilty if he doesn't play,Yeah gotta dude it up,too AESTHETIC,Lol good luck to you guys in that small room,Whose room is the biggest?,in the house,They are all pretty similar though right?,what is hapening with that room downstairs if your housemate is leaving?,Right I thought she was lol,SO you and <Name>are jsut splitting your rent?,Phoo that's pretty sweet,I mean, if you spend a lotta time outta the house,if you try and be homebodies with you both and all your shit in that little room you'll go insane,Trust me I know,OH SHIT You have my padre padrone dvd,plus pretty sure that's my coffy dvd too,possibly,Doesn't really matter cause if I want to watchit ill just stream it anyway,Hehe nostalgia trip,velvet nderground gold,omfg,So many trips down to geebung with <name> and mum with VU gold,That frickin cape,Yeah that was a nice cape,nicest cape ive seen outside of historical paintings,Plus warm,but yeah, doesn't neccesarily fit in with your chola street punk girl style,Yes get it out of your life,oOOOO,Meh, they just look liek they are having fun because they or on drugs,or collective suggestion because they spent heaps of money they feel like they should look lik ehtye are having a good time,We might get one this year as <Name> is earning some bucks at the meadow,see how we go,save up a bti and drive down the otways, deans marsh or something, with joel,wouldnt be mroe than a couple of hundred bucks,I mean in a couple of months,Fthat,Pwoof, did someone complain?,That sucks ass,I've heard at least a few customers come up and compliment you on the music you were playing,Better start saving brah,Yeah, I mean your boss is kinda trimming the board a bit. Maybe you should start looking for a new job?,Jacques brel?,Girl from epanema on repeat,I feel like you would be able to sustain a practice when working in arts management though, you'd just have to be super disciplined about it.,You working today,Cool maybe I'll pop by and grab my keyboard later,Or we can get lunch in Coburg,Sic tits I'll be outta here at like 11.30 on me bike so I'll pop round yours,We should get pho somewhere maybe,I can spot joel,Pleh more like 11.45.want me to ride to yours then lock up me bike and we'll walk down syds?,Actually I'll walk my bike coz gotta go to Brunswick rmit,Internal monologue switch off,Cool jumping on bike nowish. Will be at yours in halfa,PS if you come round later bring over your portable hard drive. My drive hates my computer for some reason. Plus I can give you <name> vids,Das cool,Hey bud when ya getting here?,Shit, we gotta be there to see by 6.30,In the city,OMG your life,Lol,Should Ave reinforced details to you this morning,So I hear from <Name>,Maybe he's right,Hehe,He's a Saint,What the?,Thank,Um writing the bridge story for a performance. Maybe I should turn it into a zine,Cool yeah I could use your expertise. Probably gunna get it finished by today,No, I want to finish writing the story,Okay I think I am finished,first draft,,I know, that was harsh as shit,Maybe a kind of abstract watery type texture for the cover,Like I would have seen lying in the water under the bridge,just the structure diluted by water,Spooky. Might want a different font though but defs in the right direction,looks too horror story,I want it more like sob<Name>g tale of woe,ooh red,I feel so guilty I fell asleep on the couch  while <Name> was aching TV. He was fine but could been really dangerous. I need to sleep more.,It was ok I only napped for like quarter of an hour and he ame and jumped on me and said daddy needa wake up,Okay so <Name> just told me she has to be at work Wednesday morning. So we gotta drop <Name> off early, like 8 o clock and then sit in traffic for an hour so I can get to the EYE and Ear by 9 for my appointment at 9:10.,ORR you can get here and drop <Name> off at shcool at 9.30 like usual and I can leave and go get the train. Itll actually take less time than driving in peak hour,I kind of need to drop him at 9:30 so I can pcik him up at 5:40 coz my class finishes at 4:30,Its WAAAY easier to just get the train. You can drop me at the station with <Name> in the car if you want but im cool to walk,Cool will do. I have an assessment class afterwards. Last time they did the dilation test it wasn't that bad as long as I was inside so probably better if I stick around the city.,A little bit, but ya know, everyone's problems are effect them in a relative way so it's hard to judge whether or not your problems are more valid than theirs .,Effecting,That's a slippery slope though, as soon as your judging other people's suff<Name>g in relation to your own you can put yours liable everyone else's and lose emoathu/become mum,Above,Empathy,Soz on phone,Yeah you are threateningn af,Like a tiger,Or a bear,I'm pretty sure boasting isn't how you get people to know you are good at stuff. You seriously sound like mum right now.,Like take this to its logical conclusion and you become super selfish and angry with no empathy boasting all the time,I'm not trying to be mean or anything,Maybe this is a conversation you should be having with yourself?,I dunno that's up to you to judge I guess,Yeah dens stuff has definitely taken its toll,I don't think that's a case of being assertive, I think that's because you are more vulnerable,But yeah, I see your point. Don't be a doormat,But that doesn't mean start talking yourself up to other people all the time,There's a happy balance somewhere maybe,I dunno, you seem pretty confident about your art,Like maybe you're a bit more insecure about some things but it's not all encompassing I don't think,Try and get here by 8 if you can. All ya gotta do is sit in the couch and watch Fran watch TV so don't stress about being super awake,I gotta get the 8.20 from strathmore so gotta leave here round 8:05,Fantastic,thanks so much,you gotta drop off <Name> at daycare at 9:30 so <Name> can pick him up at 5:30,His daycare is Coonans Hill ELC, its down reynold parade before citylink. I might have pointed it out to you before,Okay cool wasnt sure,Oh yeah, and his daycare bag is the Giraffe one, and he needs a coat and hat obvs,jsut writing this down in case you forget tomorrow morning coz tiredness,I'll have coffee read for ya,Nah just a change of clothes and a jacket.,you are on the lsit to drop him off and the front door keypad entry code is 9632,Guess who woke up at 5.30 this morning? \ude22\ude22\ude22\ude22\ude22\ude22,How'd ya go with Franz?,Oooooooo,Where?,That's awesome!,No I mean what is oracle,Ooh shit nice one,Should be okay $$$,Fingers crossed,Yeah will make things easier,So what he went to the interview and they accepted him for the position?,Sweet,Hell survive,Okay cool clean bill o health,Gotta go to class now like a tirkeybird,It's week five now. Do you reckon I could make 20 zines by week 12?,Literally just the bridge story. Like 3 pages,Wanna give it out before my performance. Like a program,Kool okay,Yeah that might be a good form,Yeah like 180gsm or something,Monochrone,Monochrome,Maybe with some sparse graphics,I'm going to take a bunch of photos and video on Monday and possibly manipulate process them,Going to the bridge. Hope it doesn't rain,Yeah, you know my aesthetic,Just minimal and literally like the text,Kind of a non fiction vibe,Minimal and literal like the text I mean,If we get paper stock I can do the printing at school with <Name>'s unlimited print credity,My budget for this is like 12 bucks,Lol,I'm obsessed with gasamtkunstwerk though so wanted to try and make this piece as far ranging as possible and take many forms,Without being confused,That's why I asked you matey. You're the master I am just a simple scholar,phoo 1200 bucks,would have to apply for funding,Totally, feel like 1200 bucks plus 25 percent of sales is a bit intense though. Like what are they providing other than a gallery space?,Nah, if they are artists runs or if they have been funded by the government its usually pretyt affordable,I think west space was even paying artist fees for this year,Had a minor anxiety attack before cause I realized I had missed most of the application dates for 2018,Seriously need a centralized database of gallery application dates and prices,Yeah good call,Do you have any advice on how to find galleries to apply for?,Should I just make a list?,ooh cool that list is great,gunna make a excel table with closing dates and stuff,Yeah totally, I need to just set aside a few weekends to going out to galleries checking out the kind of art they are shoing and talking to the people there and eyebaling the space,Feel like maybe I should focus on Uni as much as possible, and then do this stuff during the summer holidays when I have lots of time to write proposals and stuff,I just had a kind of wierd pang of fear that I was just making art in this RMIT vaccuum and even if it is good it doesnt matter because noone will ever see it,Cool, yeah that's what I'm worried about. like 90 percent of the people I knwo who did arts at uni didn't end up exhibiting after the grad show. You aren't one of them. It was part of the reason I was worried about going to art school in the first place. Its a bit of a bubble.,I dunno, its been a hard couple of years I don't think I should neccesarily be too hard on  myself for not excelling in absolutuely every aspect of my life,Its just hard being with <Name> who is very externally successful and good at that admin stuff,I get overwhelmed by all the application dates and stuff,I'm usually pretty independent with my work I'd liek to think,like I don't really take cues so mcuh from what my lecturers are doing nowadays,Nah rmit iss very hands off liek that. People have dropped out cause they weren't told what to do enough,Haha, go back and do a seconds bachelor of arts,nah you cant was just kidding,I guess my problem is that i have a lt of art, I ma makign a lot of content, gettign good feedback so I feel liek it should be out there being exhibited,*lot,Like I feel like if I graduated now I would probably be fine with an art practice EXCEPT for the professional aspect of it,I'm gunna talk to some of my lecturers about I think, ask for advice,Oh the creative veictoria thing? Thats jsut coz they trawl art unis for "promising students",to be a promising student at RMIT you jsut gotta show up to class and email your lecturers every once in a while,Like, not be flaky and hand in shit on time,hmm, yeah could be good,we definitely lack a common shared space in sound,I've been trying to get a group show off the ground like all of this year but people keep falking out on me,slaking,flaking,and slaking,slaking my thirst for success,I dunno. Get pho or ramen? I only go to cafeteria style places coz I'm not fussy,Go to that trailer park themed place food was tasty not to spenno and decor was nice,Grand trailer park taverna,Got table service at least and nice booths and stuff,Nice one!,Look who'll be buying bread now like a bourgeois,And with white flour not that gard millet grain that gears up your guts,Hard,Tears,Fuck you autocorrect,I am so lovely and eloquent in real life and phone keyboard makes me sound so basic,\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d,What a luxury,OMG get him to start rolling outside,Get him a little box from the 2 dollar shop to out his fags  in when he's home,Put,I had to train <Name>,Haha they just kinda suck at life for incredibly different reasons,Whereas we have a weirdly strong domestic instinct,I think it was coz mum made us do chores,Yeah if you Gauge parenthood by readying your kids for the outside world then they did a pretty good job.,Then again we both spent a lot of time home when we were adults and were expected to contribute,If I had da left home at 18 I think I would be differ,Ent,Yeah we rule and other people suck,Haha yeah I send off an application a couple of months ago,kinda cool,wish there was more documentation but we'll see,looks good on the old resume,I know, that would be cool,Hey what day are we doing something for your birthday? Saturday or Sunday? I gotta book the studio for this weekend,Cool yeah great idea. I got the studio booked for Saturday night,Poops. Maybe we should have an inside plan just in case,Yeah if it's crappy weather. Maybe we could meet at your place and if the weather sucks we'll stay there but if it'd good we can go to the lake,Ooh nice,Dude go for it,Glad to hear it bud,Hey are you free tomorrow morning to watch <Name> for a couple of hours? I have to go to class and <Name> has work,I gotta be at class by 9.30, 10 at the lastest,latest,I can possibly drop <Name> off at your place if thats easier,Or get <Name> to,I'lll ask <Name> hangon,It's cool Christobel is here on the morning so no stress.,In,Haha oh god,Nice that sounds awesome. I'm in the studio slamming vocals,Yo what time you need us at your today? Got a heap o cheese,kool sounds good,Community engagement?,Creative liason,Niveburgers,Thanks bud,Haha, thanks. Sorry wanted to talk to <Name> coz she is all like "OMFG so Presigious!!",Haha, thats cool, you had the same thought process as I did,instant suspicion,Haha, yes men all round,Yeah sounds good. I got 3 assignments/presenations due tomorrow, thursday and friday. But the weekend might be good lol,Lol,   "looking for staff around the corner from your place,never leave coburg again,Haha they'll never change,Fucking hell I'm writing the most intense song,It's actually off the chain. Turned into a kind of 80s power ballad,I'll send it to ya. Its pretty epic,   "Here ya go, Play it on ya stereo,Did ya have a listen?,I wrote it for <name>,Ya got headphones?,sikkk,A bit. I've been trying to channel it all,I fuckin shred at the end too,Yeah, darkwave ballad,Yeah defs a step up in production,All I have to do is work on a song tirelessly for like four days,and do nothing else lol,Yeah, wanna do one by next year. Cassette release and then start playing shows again,Reckon its a more mature sound,I know! I'm super proud of it. Its a bit longer than usual. I think I'll intersperse slow songs with faster ones on the EP though. But yeah, the more intricate arrangements and guitar and stuff I'm gunna use more.,Yeah that's a good thing,Thanks. I reckon its definiteiyl a single from am new EP. Dunno if I'll release it, might sit on it and release it with the whole EP,Yeah, I think its an album closer,laterzzz,yeah probs,SWEET SWEEET FRESH FRESH,I'm L-Dilla,<Name>'s got the natural rhythm and eloquence needed true,Hippy hop,Awesome,Yeah should be fine as long as people buy their own beers I reckon,Well just split a bunch of pizzas,Maybe <Name>could pay for himself? Could easily be like 150 bucks with beers and food,Dunno if we can afford that,I dunno. This is why we do it at home I guess,Okay cool and I'll just have like one beer and will eat before and then we should be good,Haha,Yeah that's what I was thinking,Yeah I'll sneak a sammich,Or we could go someplace cheaper but also nice,Haha I'll bring Crackers for <Name>,True,So at 30 bucks a pop thats 150 between us not including beers,thats manageable,we'll jsut order a bunch of chips baskets,10 baskets of chips,and I'll bring some MPC and play a free gig,Wow chicka,wokka chicka,wokka chicka wokka chicka wokka chicka,sweet fresh,haha that was fun,so much more fun that real life,than,finest bread rolls and margarita pizzas only thanks,knowing <Name> she'll spend like 20 bucks on <Name> for like 3 nuggets and chips and then give him a cookie if he doesnt eat it,or mum will give him a cookie before lunch,to pacify him,that is the way of the mum and oma,Yum scraps,Lol,Buttknuckles,oh geez,OH yeah ya just need a usb hard drive thing,I'd lend you mine but I lost it,I have one somewhere,Nah an enclosure, that is empty and then you put the harddrive in it,yeah well his giant fuck off monitor will probably be good,PS that <place> proposal I did got accepted! Gunna have my first exhibition!,Now I just gotta make the damn work,Oh really,Nah I just gotta find a few flat screen tv screens and do some video and sound recording in the break,I will need help with everything,Yeah let him do it he will get you a good one,So what do you do? "Computer guy",So who pays him, dudes that need computer guys?,ooh,yeah totally, I needa upgrade. Ask him what model it is and I'll google id its compatible with my motherboard and junk,IT MEANS I'LL BE ABLE TO SEE PEOPLES HAIR MOVING CALCULATED IN REAL TIME,Apparently my computer sucks at running new graphics cards,cool,Hey we might be a bit late <Name> is having a nao,Nap,Cool!,Yeah I remember her,she seemed cool,oo depressing,nice,Put God I forgot,Oh,I forgot to buy more pickles,Gross frabk kept chicken nuggets in his cheeks from dinner and spat the chicken paste out into the bath,Yeah that sounds nice. <Name>'s going mad with her thesis but I might be able to ride over after <Name> is in bed or something,Okay cool I'll ask her,She's pretty stressed out btu I think I might be able to come,Maybe we can do it at my place and just be quiet so she can stay out at the library,Cool,we can order food lol no dishes,<Name>s super stressed out about her thesis coz ehs left it ot the last minute,so we just have to work with her on the schedule and stuff,yeah lets just do it here. Just no heavy drinking and talking over each other (MUM),Or the cones they give doggoes so they dont bite their stitches,needs a funnel,nught,Yo are you guys coming around tonight?,nice one,haha nice,nah,nah I cant remember coz I was super wasted all the time partying coz I was so cool,Haha,Nah coz you're old and wise and people come to you for memories of simpler times and herbal remedies,Haha getting started early,Well at least you're smarter and more interesting,Oh wait,It's got a calculator thousands of times and powerful and has literally aleverything available visitors the interwrbs,Woah but it can't autocorrect properly,Strong vote for the human camp,Don't worry I feel your pain cept my competition is neopets,And at the moment Bachelorette memes,How could I ever compete,Yeah that's the point,But good use of the word abhorrent,That is literally half of Australia,Nice!,Looks cool,Nice drawing,Hey did ya wanna come round on Wednesday night anx stay here while <Name>'s in bed so me and <Name> can go see blade runner?,You can watch TV at our place,And lie on our cool couch,Yeah that's totes fine I'll take a look at session times,So you can defs get there by 7? Like we can book a 8 oclock session for northlands,Yum, toasted cheese,Why are you making bread at like 11 o clock?,Nah actualy I think that bread would pair nicely with a nice dry chardonnay, chilled, and a side of jamon,or wafer thin slices of pancetta,a hommeade tomato relish on the side,and a double cream brie,nah roasted garlic infused oil,   "Man I started out kidding but really want to make an infused oil now,Yo you still down for tonight? Also reckon you could help me get my stuff out to Reservoir tomorrow night? Need to set up for Friday,Hey can you come round at like 12 tomorrow?,You rok,You are dyslexic,It's OK u can watch TV instead,Not with subtitles though so no foreign films,I'm not but <Name> and <Name> should be?,Kooloes,OHGEEZ,sorry caps lock on,nice,How's it going?,So when I get home do you mind giving me a lift to Reservoir? Gotta get there early to set up and everyone is mad at me for not being there. :(,Cuute,So when I get home do you mind giving me a lift to Reservoir? Gotta get there early to set up and everyone is mad at me for not being there. :(,Soon, <Name>'s just getting her credit transfer signed and then we will head off. Maybe 45 mins?,What a trooper,Like 9.30 probably,Kooool,So dark,Thanks for grabbing my stuff u rock,Haha,Thanks,Yeah that was lulu. With the red wig. They're super cool,I'm doing that exhibition in Feb with them,What should we do about my stuff? I can come by and grab some stuff tomorrow on the bus,That would be so awesome if you could. I promise I won't ask you for another favour for a log time,That would be so great!,Been pining,Had to use my backup synth for like 2 days #firstworldproblems,Haha, everybody has those moments,probs just some weird compatibility thing,nice one,woah,sweegt grafux,soon the graphics will become so hyper real he wont be able to tell the difference bw reality and the game,Not this sunday the 29th? I go planz, but yeah free the sunday after tahat?,Yeah don't see why not. Ask <Name> on Francis counsel and we can guilt her together,Into letting me go,Nah,Need guiot,Guilt,It's the only way I can get her to do stuff atm,Everything I do is research,Sounds great,Start curtsying and waving a silk handkerchief and then swoon to the floor and watch them swarm to rescue you,Oo,Nice,Not too bad, we left it in like the same condition so no stress. You guys bought your own groceries and stuff yeah?,That's cool just needed to know what to do with replace,Ooh yeah,What's that white stuff you left in the fridge,Is it drugs,Nah in the Pyrex,What?,Oh you left us milk in that Pyrex,Lol thanks,We didn't know it was milk,So we had black cofvefe this morning,Lol,I dunno kefir or something,Thought you was making yogurt,Haha,We suck,Nah we thought it was some weird stuff that you left in the frig,Aha that's so funny,Never give is the benefit of the doubt,We are stoopid,I moved it so that <Name> couldn't get it,I shook it up a bunch,What movie shoudl I watch?,Thinking something lynchy or cronenbergy,is lost highway good?,nice I'l have a look,thanks brah,Stay away,That's normal,Hey how ya doing? Do you reckon you could watch <Name> for a bit on the evening of the 22nd of november? Its the RMIT grad show and I kinda wanna go and see what I'm getting myself into next year. <Name>s got this grad program dinner thing. When do you finish work on Wednesdays again?,ya reckon you can come by after work?,Sick thanks",""" "This is why we don't have photos together,Yes pls when can you get here after work?,All ya gotta do is give him a bath and out him to bed then you can just chill and watch some teevs,How late?,Alrighty.,Oh yeah coz u gotta PT it. Where are ya now?,   "Haha nice,I'm looking for a summer job too so if you see anything send it my way,Casual arts jobs at events and stuff, workshops, ticketing sales, stuff like that,thankx,Whats a good moivie to watch when you are feeling shit about yourself for some schadenfreude,oooo looks good,thanx,Gunna look it up now, cheers joelo,kahuna,Fuj,Fuck yeah good choice,Yeah I was gunna talk to you about that. Seems like they've been fucking with you a bit lately,You'll be able to get a new job no stress,You're super experienced,Yeah pointless. Sometimes ya just gotta pull the trigger on that shit. Good for you,Poops,Haha,Havent seen her reading anything lollll,I'm not sure. I'll take a look on a sec,BTW can you remind me to go to lush in the city next Wednesday and get <Name> some prezzoes,Oh yeah. Well I'm gunna be in the studio and was gunna do some lush shopping in the citay of ya wanna join. I'll show ya the EP too if ya want,Yayayaya,Oh geez,so good,you got us that mug cake book right?,so much use out of that,I won't. No stress I'm going in later than I anticipated anyway. Hope you feel better :),:(,Dunno. Starts at 8.,Notice one ill let you know times when I know more,Please come if you can I know Noone else will lol,<Name>might possibly like this Thang\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14,\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14\ud83e\udd14,Yeah you can just come lawlwl,Or not I dunno stop messing with my hopes,Sweet let's have a beer,I'm overdue for a brew,Overdue for a tasty brew, my sister too,#justrhymesterthoughts,Piss off Baudelaire there's a new rhymester in da hood,I'm the real clam zany,LAWL,\ud83c\udf7c,Hey whatchu doing wednesday night? Feel like driving me out to footscray to drop off that PA at denholms? <Name>'s been on me ass about getting it back to Fscray. Will buy you petrol/dinner?,oohargh well I was also going to pick up a keyboard from some dude in footscray too. Then we can get pho or something?,dude thank you,I found the synth deal of a lifetime and <Name> can't drive me coz of <Name>,SWEEET,I'll msg denny. And don't worry I'm getting my license next year,and will give you lifts,Get on his arese,well steady on then,Just staying cool. <Name>'s going out for lunch with Cathy and <Name> but will be back later,Cool I'll let you know what we're doing,<Name> and <Name> just got home and <Name> is having a nap,He woke up at 5.30 this morning,Crazy kid,And needed porridge,And I'm like it's too hot for porridge and CBF making it,And he just yelled at me until I made it for him,#dadlyf,Yeah but they need to be the hooky ones not studs,PS what time ya popping over tonight? Like 6 maybe?,We're going to Footscray and then yarraville,Then getting some fud,Thanks budol,Lol dude left it late enough,We got her a cookbook,Get her a clothe or tote or something,Hers is pretty raggedy,Oo,Hey can we go to Gma and Gpas next week. Just not feeling up to the trip tomorrow,Fine by mr,Me,Mr me is the Lil man who lives in my Brian and the lls me to kill,I am a vuctim of hiz dark planz,Did you die?,Noice. Yeah I know I'm seeing him on wednesday,thurs,whups,where'd you see him?,Yeah he's living there apparently,yeah I think so. Should fit,ooh those look good little plastic things,Yo can you take <Name> on the 10th of Feb for a couple of hours I wanna take <Name> out fm to brubch/lunch for her birthday,Cool thanx manolo,Oh nice one,I s not that bad of a job,Best call center I've worked at,<name>'s been there as a casual for like 5 years,The pay is pretty good,Like 24-25 bucks or sonething,Yeah well ya gotta out yourself down for minimum 4 days available with src AFAIK,Yeah youd be stacking cash,Oh so badly,BURN,Be still my beating heart,Nice one,Haha I want to start working there again Gaddamn need extra cash,Haha yeah kinda,Hey are you free at all next week to help me get some stuff to the gallery for my install?,I gotta pick up a big screen from RMIT and try and get it to the gallery on Tuesday, might be too late by then. I'll just get a troll and and walk it through the city maybe,Trolley,Haha was just offhand asking no stress,This screen may not fit in your boot it's pretty wide,Hm I'll check with my peeps and see what times are there,Times they will be there,Coz we only got two sets of keys,Yup, worst time for <Name> to start a full time job, like the week before emy first big install,Haha no I'm super happy for her,It's just weird timing is all,I think cathy is coming down to hang out with <Name> a bit on Tuesday so I can go in and do some measuring and crap. I gotta mount a TV on the wall which I've never done before though so that might be tricky,Haha senor stupido,Yeah! A bit nervous about actually installing coz I have no idea what I'm doing and they are giving me power tools lol,Haha,What did you expect,Are you still cool to help me grab that TV form rmit tomorrow?,I gotta email the loans dudes,Cool thanks. So you're finishing work at 2? How soon could you get to rmit in the city? I'll pay for parking if you need to park,Okay cool I'll check and get back to you tomorrow morning,Hey don't stress TV was way lighter than I thought got it now and just tramping it up to gallery,Fucking hell. I don't know what the fuck I am doing.,Are you free to chat?,Oh Jesus I do have to pick up <Name>,Trams were cancelled so I waited 20 minutes and then when it came it was too packed get on so I had to run for the train,Fuck today so hard,20 minute walk from the station to pick up <Name>, then 15 back home I've walked 10k all way already,Today,I'm so fucked,Yeah I got heaps of water. Just worried about <Name> in this heat.,Fuck I've had the worst day lol,Nothing has gone smooth,I was due one of these Days, everything was going too well haha,Oh well.. Cool change is coming tonight so should be able to think properly at least,Lost my sunglasses as well,I know. I think they're at the gallery somewhere  so not a huge deal,Plus ripped a hole in my shirt,Haha sorry just rememb<Name>g everything,I passed out for a bit after I put <Name> to bed and I feel better. Just gunna see what tomorrow brings. I might have time to rehang a little higher tomorrow but I'll make sure to bring my own tools! I'll also do all the other stuff for my install first and rehang last if I get time.,I know how to do it now so I don't think it'll take as long and I won't have to worry about spacfilling if I go higher coz the TV will be cov<Name>g it.,also will not be like 38 degrees tomorrow,The only other stuff I have to do is a couple of hooks for headphones and hang a sign on a wooden door,and hide cables and stuff then I'm done',yeah I'm fine to do that stuff. Plus I own the sign so all good. I've learnt a lot about how to mount stuff on walls I spose is what I will take away from this. And I will be extra careful next time.,I think I had super mild heatstroke. I walked 12k in full sun for like 160 minutes according to my phone,and I only slept like 5 hours last night and didn't eat anything,Yeah I know, didn't have a choice though haha,Its okay, I had a nice chill day monday and tuesday and knew that doing the TV was going to stressful,RMIT fucked me round a bit with the whole TV situation,so I was already feeling super stressed about it,yeah, well they just gave me the wrong stuff like 5 times haha,and I booked the stuff like 3 weeks ago and showed up on tuesday and they didn't know who I was,so annoying,wish I was hanging prints or something. Then I wouldn't have to worry about them falling off the wall haha,yeah fair call every medium has its challenges,yeah that's my rationale,liek I borrowed this tv from uni so I'm a bit ginger about it,but its only like a 200 dollar tv,so worst comes to worst I pay it off, I donubt they would make me pay it all,I reckon once I get better at installing I will be a good artist,my work is good, I just need to think a little more abotu how its going to work and the logistics of stuff,plus I really need to learn to drive,on a day like today if I had the car it would have been like 2000 percent easier,ha youre so bad at making me feel better,I blame today on the heat,yeah I reckon it'll be good,I've still got tomorrow and possibly friday morning to work on stuff so I'm not super worried,haha, yeah but she came to your first,and shes never been to one of my gigs,cept the wedding,haha shes just old,haha yeah I think thats why she's always like "Why don't ya play guitar like jackson",Oh such a nice boy, always such nice singing,Um I dunno. Maybe come round in the afternoon? Not sure where to take <Name> lol,Been all about my install thus week,Need to find a place that does awesome pancakes,Yum but <Name>'s not into cherries,I rehang the TV,It looks great,Hello who's there? Aunty <Name>is not coming to our house until its morrow time. It's only daddy and Francis but where's mummy and aunty <Name>? Don't scare me! I (from <Name>),<Name> wanted to send you a message,He's in such a weird mood lol,Yeah just a little bit spacey,What time you coming round?,Sick tittles,OMG dude go to the car wash your car is literally a shit box,Oh jaysus,I'll give you some acting,watched adaptation the other week,was good,haha yes,I will check it out tonight,ps check this out, I'm redoing my website and designing it myself\   "yeah don't look at th emobile thing not finished,oh yeah it went down soz,im still working on it was too premptive,okay jsut try liamfpower.com now,yeah I'll be finished soonish,now I know web design king of,kind of,pretty impressive. Took me ages to learn how to code everything,I rule I'm really good at learning new skillz,I god mad bowhunting skillz, karate skillz, web design skillz,Okay I'm gunna watch the Geez on bad lieutenant now,Herzog,Should I watch the Harvey Keith one or the herzog one,Not for ages. Maybe I'll watch the Harvey one tonight and herzog tomorrow,yup,why?,did ya get the partolos?,yeah brake cable and ends,I think most of my tools are at the gallery tho,I'll double check tonight,yeah do it! Hopefully I won't have to swap with anyone though coz <Name> keeps getting sick at school and has to come home early,:(,haha and then hes totally fine when he gets home,its really annoying,he's not faking, they just take that shit really seriously,like his temperature was 38.1 or something and they were like he has to come home,but yeah now I'm worried I won't be able to sit friday which would suck so bad,Got a few people sposed to come visit too,was looking forward to it,:(,jaysus,how do you even spend that much at pizza hut,how did someone in sydney get your details?,crayza,anyeay gotta go im gunna watch herzog bad lieutenant,OMFG the scene with the iguanas,There's that one smiley iguana,yeah twas a bit inscrutable at times but was definitely worth it haha,kk,   this video to promote our show but not sure if its a bit too unsettling?,Yeah I think so but not for years,what nicolas cage moviw shoudl I watch tonight,lol,nah I'm just gunna post it on the interface page, not on the <place> one so they mightn't care that much,I wanna wathc lost highway but think it goes for too long,I love sax scenes,WOAH! Soz mate, daylight saving thre me out and its already 10 apparently,Hi, hows it going? how much were you asking for the 6i6?,250 sounds like a pretty good deal if its almost new, saw one go for 220 yesterday on gumtree but that might have been a statistical anomaly. Where abouts are you located?,Oh dang I'm in melbourne. Not sure if it'd be that cost effective with postage included. Sorry!,Man it's tempting but was really going over my budget at 250 and I only got cash. Might wait for something closer to home that I can test out. Cheers though.,Oh congrats! Got a 3 year old myself so remember that mad scramble for cash. Okay deal! I can go and do that tomorrow if you give me your bank details.,Yup, soLiam Power<home>.Pascoe Vale SouthVIC 3044<email><number>I'll do a bank deposit tomorrow I reckon and will let ya know when I've sent the cash through.,My place might be better if possible. Don't have a car so a bitch to get out to tulla haha.,Looks good. Will let you know when I've deposited cash","" "Paid! Let me know tracking and stuff when you get it.,Any updates on this?,No worries just checking in,No stress, post it when you got the time,Hey reckon you'll be able to get this on its way by the end of the week? Would like to have it before xmas if possible.,Hope you understand where I'm coming from. I deposited cash into your account without any pictures of a working unit or confirmation of when it would be sent.  Beginning to get a little worried.,Okay that's good to hear. Just had this kind of stuff happen before so a bit wary. Thanks for getting in contact.,Hey just got TNT Notification., cheers mate.,No worries, thanks for that I appreciate it.,Yeah it's nightmare at this end!! They got the address wrong yesterday, sent to 2 Le Cateau St instead of 7. So went back to the depot. I called and they apologized and said they would redeliver today. And then just didn't deliver at all today, said it was out with the driver all day. I made sure I was home both days and they just didn't deliver. I'm really sorry about that but it's their fault. How much are they charging you. I'll pay it and then try and get a refund from them.,It's so ridiculous. I've lodged a complaint and they're supposed to call back tomorrow morning so will know more then.,Haha yeah the rumors are true supposedly.,Let me know if you have any questions really can't get out of that fee though. I will pay it.,Not as of yet. I'll make sure I get one tomorrow when I talk to them.,Here's a picture of the package indicating that the delivery label had the right address which means Mondays wrong address was the couriers fault. Shouldn't have to pay redelivery if it was operator error.,Haha still have to plug it in!,Works perfectly and in great condition! Cheers for that.,Hey I think we're related in some distant obscure way, you know natalie fraser? I'm her son.Liam Fraser-Power?ring any bells?anyway hi.,Yeah I kinda used to look like harry potter sans the scar and the magic wand.I'm nearly 17, goin into year 12 this year so I guess you are a year older.Yeah that description sounds exactly like me, always toting some kind of gaming device. Though now itd be more likely to be a guitar, what with me being and incredibly famous and successful musician and all.... So what have you been doing for the last nearly 18 years?Stuff?,well, I've already done literature, which was what I wanted to do the most, but I'm doing history revolutions (awesome), I.T apps (yawn) English (der) Media (Cool) and Studio arts ( teacher is a man hating lesbian... I mean I don't mind if shes a lesbian but does she have to hate men so much?)I think thats it, I don't think about school during th eholidays.Germany huh?Go to Berlin, thats the best city!,Hey mate interested in the beatstep pro, has it gone yet?,Dang,That's cool, next in line!,Cool, let me know. I'm in Coburg and can pay cash if that helps.,Yeah I'm still into it! What's a good time/day for pickup?,Possibly, depends whereabouts you are?,Yeah cool I can do that, what time is good?,Cool alright I'll drop by in a couple of hours, will Probs have my two year old with me hope that's cool. I'll give ya a message when I'm close by?,Sweet see ya soon!,Alright, will shoot for 1:30,Hey bud, I'm about ten minutes away,Haha fuck it's essential to the old work flow now bud. Couldn't possibly! Sorry.,Seen a few on MGN last couple of weeks. Might be a worth a shot to ask on there if anyone's didn't sell,There's a Beatstep for 250 on MGN right now if ya still want it.,Oh nice one, hope ya make some bangers/non bangers depending on your preferences,Hey bud do you remember when you bought that BSP you sold me? It's not working and wanted to see if it's still under warranty \ude42,Dang, did you register it when you bought it? Cause its not letting me open a support ticket unless I register the device.,Okay I tried to register it but it's saying I can't register cause it has already been registered.,Hm. Weird. Thanks for checking. I'll just email support and see what they say. Cheers.,Hey Mai goes it going matey? What time were you guys thinking of doing sound check. Earliest I can get there is like 8 unfortunately, sick baby :(.,Also lei can borrow my amp fo sho and we can have a chat about settings and jazz if she wants to get a certain tone from it.,Cool cool, see ya round 8 then! Gunna be a good one!,Hey bud, how ya doin? Workin hard on grad show stuff?,When is it again? I think I was fairly pissed when you explained what you were doing to me and may have forgotten the finer details.,Hey thanks for putting me onto that Lawrence English article. As soon as I looked up room 40 I remembered a bunch of his stuff. Good reading. Good hustle today haha,How ya doing?I'm Liam,I'm cool, I'm not sunburnt, mainly cause I only go out at night, I'm kind of like an owl,without the whole sitting in a tree thing.So how was your new years eve?,Not really, stumbled down the beach,cooked for about 5hours, saw some pretty colours in the sky, hit on some girl then left.Any alcohol I did drink was evaporated straight away.Thank god for gatorade!How bout your weekend?,went to some comedy club, it was pretty cool I was doing audio for a tv show though so couldnt really get into it,yeah im going to do some filming tomorrowfor channel 31my friend is like big intoit so I help out sometimes,Not really, but its cool to put on your resume,you work at target?that sucks,do you get free shit?thats the only reason id work at placesif I got freeshitoh and the wagestheyd be good tooI'm too lazy to  get a job,what do you have to do, pack shelves and whatnot?Or checkout chick kinda thing?Thatd suck because you'd get assholes giving you shit all the time, like one time I was at some store and the 110 year old woman shuffled up and asked for a refund on like a pair of stoc<place> or something, and the cashier was like "Ok well I'll need the product and your reciept"and the old lady friggin hitches up her skirt and there is the damn stoc<place>, the crazy old hag was wearing them!gosh, that was bizarre,sounds fair boring, its surprising theyd put a girl in menswear.Whats next? A woman president?lol im totally kiddingI'm a male feminist, if that existsI'm pretty sure men are becoming obsolete anywayall you guys need is our sperm!anyway I jsut went off on a little bit of a rant, forgive me.,I know who you are, don't need to sign off,Hi Linh, hows it going? Here is the original post I made when I lost my bike\   ",Thats a few minutes after I got it it back hehe. Lemme know if you need anything else,Haha, that's just how I look when I'm happy. Cool, 11:30 tuesday. Hopefully doesn't rain like crazy,Drowned rat not a good look for anyone especially babies.,You too matey. Good luck with the story!,hey pete, what is yr status? Gunna do the shed today - did you want us to just replace the weights for the tarps that are there or put up the other tarps and weigh the whole thing down?,Done the roof and the smoke detectors. Here are some pics of the roof :),Looks pretty secure, bit of a breeze today and nothing was flapping.,<number>,Hey there, My name is Liam. <name> from the Catfish put me onto you and said we might work well to play a gig together sometime, I play dark, electronic style stuff. I'd be super happy to open for you one of these days if you need to fill a slot. Here's a link to some of my stuff,    know if you're into it, we can work out something. PS love your work.,Yeah no stressies man, ill let ya know if I hear of something too of course. Have a good 'un!,Hey manolo, whats goigndown?How ya been man, wha are you doing now with your life and stuff?You still with em I think?ows the music going? got any bands on the boil?Hows your... face?Is it good?Hows the fam?PICKLEBERRY?LoveLiam,Man I'm goign good, uni is good openin my mind and stuff, yeah I'm still with em too, its the shit! not really, im with <name>, who I dont think you've met but is great and we've been together for about 1 and a half years now. You and em gunna get married or something? Crap to hear about the band stuff not happening too much, I know how you feel, me and my friend <Name>have a band sorta thing happening at the moment, but its kinda hard with uni and work and girlfriend and writing poetry and reading and stuff. What kind of music are you diggin at the moment? hope you are still shredding on the old guitar, fucking arpeggios from hell and shit! My face is doin ok, still can't grow anythin but peach fuzz on this youthful fucker though, been wanting to grow some demon mutton chops, but alas, tis not to be. My family is doin fine, my sis is moving out at the moment (or trying to) as am I (but less urgently)Yours with brotherly loveLiam,Fuck yeah, you have to listen to this band. You'll cream you jeans I bet. Fucking yeah.    and also    Hope you dig em/have downloads for them. They are worth it man I SWEAR TO JESUS/,Howdy pilgrim. What's happenein with ol' Jackaboy Janev nowadays. Been twelve million years since we got together. Whats the gopher? I think the last time we saw each other was last year at honk kong jonk fung kitchen or whatever its called. What have you been doing. Fuck, I feel like some sort of estranged auntie that is never invited to christmas. Christ man!,6 guitars, sheez, you made it man. I'm alright, fell ten metres off a rail bridge a month ago and broke 6 ribs, so I been touched by an angel. Been recording heaps, and writing, submitting to magazines. Haven't got a bite yet but these fuckers wouldn't know good writing if it bit them on their cankerous ass, what you been doing music wise nowadays? You got one of those bandcamp things? mines    started gigging round and maybe try to start up some sort of label this year. Still at home, rents fucked at the moment as is the job market. Might be going back to uni this year but can't really see the point in it after returning from the gaping maw of death. What else you been doing?,yeah bandcamp's pretty good, feels somehow classier than myspace. Yeah good call, luckily the band I am in I trained up all the musicians, so I call the shots in a non egotistical way, but they kinda call me out if its getting too wierd and self absorbed. Yeah, I was thinbking about going to india or cuba at some point, probably next year, don't knwo yet. I know I don't wanna go to europe yet, I wanna go after it stops being trendy, and also can't wait for the financial crisis to really burrow into it so that it is as cheap as a third world country. New york is meant to be fucking great though, wouldn't mind doing thw holke america/mexico thing at one point. Norway would be the shit, just don't go on any islands. And don't talk politics. Yeah, we been doing some sort of noisey blues stuff, I mean, its the easiest to jam to cause it can be sloppy and out of tune and still sort of come together in the 12 bar structure, I mean, you put anything to a twelve bar structure and itll turn out sounding like a song I guess. Mental conditioning. Yeah man, feel free to come up at some point.,Oh yeah, well ya know its hard not to have a shitload of rage at the world nowadays, there's shit on the daisys. Gad ya liked it man, we will have to jam sometime if ya come down, full band etc. Then again I guess I could always come down there at some point, just sorta floating around at the moment.,definites, well my 21st is on march 2nd so ill invite you down then if you dig,shit yeah, well ya shoul dget an invite soon, can always crash down here, plus it should be a bastard of a party, a hoedown gaddamn, so dress up as clint eastwood or something,GET THE SHIT OFF MY LAWN YOU CHINK BASTARDS,AND HE PLAYS THE PIANO,hey there m'man, whats going on?,not too damn much, just packing up my shit, movin on sunday,carlton,gunan ya know, eat pizza, and join the mafia,fitzroy I think, but pretty close,five minute walk anyplace,ahh yeah, you should come down and visit one time, go see a gig or something,no PRESH, time is of no fucking importance,at all,fuck time in its withered pussy,with one fist in its asshole,up to the elbow,what are ya doing music wise nowadays my freind,Darn tootin, well this new house will have all the fixins if ya wann acome up and jammo,worldeater,nice,ya got anything I can listen to from the safety of my own home?,Fuckin a man, still facestalk you every now and again. Loving that we're both doing music still.,hell yeah, dunno how often you're in melb but I'm down for a beer on the weekend usually. Stayin at home with the baby during the week doe. Next time you thinkin of coming up give us a bell,Hell yes! I'm just a laptop and launch pad and ableton so super portable. Would be boss to make some beats and jazz. Same offer holds for if ya come up here too. Got a bit of a studio set up.,Ps I'm playing gigs on the 22nd, and sept 6th if yr down round then.,Obligs birthday msg brew, have a goodun,Hey yeah right, I dunno what impression I seemed to give off the other night. I have been thinking for a while and can tell you that I am really flattered but I am in a really confusing situation at the moment and could dig a little space from all romantic kinda stuff for a while. I hope you can understand that I think you are great but not in a way which would have any romantic ends. I'm sorry if I've seemed kind of misleading in the past but I am in a kind of strange situation right now regarding a former girlfriend and I don't want to compromise anything. Good luck though, and hope to continue being chums with you for a long while to come.,Hey!I was just wonderingif perhaps you wanted to get together some time next week and study for our literature exam, I am quite lost as I wasn't able to come to the last few tutes and stuff, and I would really appreciate it if you could help me out, unless you are lost too, in which case perhaps we can put our heads together about the whole thing and work something out. I am free pretty much all week so feel free to give me a buzz if you dig doing a bit of the old study.Oh yeah and we can do some history too if you want, I need to study for that too.My number is 0434646023Hope to hear from you soonLiam,Tuesday sounds fine, yeah ill invite alex, the more brains working on it the better right?,hm.. tuesday, how about 11 at the library I suppose, you know level 3 with those tables and all the people and stuff.,Pretty damn good actually, i'm generally relaxed for exams though.,Okay, yeah I've been meaning to see those Frowning Clouds for a while now. See what you've been swooning about. I'll show.Liam,Oh okie doke. Think ill be able to show.,Hey Chris, how ya doing? I was gunna ask what time you think you'll be round for install this week as I would really appreciate some help getting my screen on the gallery wall. I've never mounted a screen before and I'm not exactly sure how to do it so it doesn't all come crashing down like my hopes and dreams on the floor. Cheers,Oh hell yeah. Good job! Yeah I might pop in tomorrow to see the lay of the land if I can get someone to babysit. Was thinking I'd have to use anchors if I can't find any studs. If you could grab some extra that'd be really helpful. I was gunna buy some but didnt really know what to get haha.,Yeah, who knows what it look like behind the wall so its good to know. Even if we have a good solid stud point and a few anchors I think it will work. <Name> was telling me horror stories about RMIT's lack of insurance for borrowed gear so being cautious haha.,jaysus these people got no respect,You at the gallery now or something up later?,Awesome I'm just at southern cross. Be there in 5,Managed to tame the radio frequencies coming out of my headphones with a ground loop isolator thank Fark. Your install looks real nice BTW.,Yeah me too. Hopefully getting my TV up tomorrow and then it's just cable runs and lotsa fun,futzing round with processing and made a sketch that takes webcam image and then turns it into many tiny versions of itself. Thought you'd appreciate.,Made into a browser sketch now \   "Hm. 9am Saturday, usually weeping in the shower while wiping last nights poo and spit up off myself but we might be able to arrange something. We're in Coburg at 1/79 Harding st. I'll talk to <Name> but I'm pretty sure we don't have anything on that day.,Will do, might have to a be a little later than 9 though,Hm. We could even do after that? we're trying to figure out sleeping things and doing shifts at the moment and I have 11-5am, so I'd probably be dead to the world at 9 Saturday.,That would probably work a lot better.,Yep. Give us a bell on Saturday and see where we're at.,Woah hey that looks good, might be able to make it, will check with <Name> and <Name>,yep,hehe, he'll be fine, just gotta make sure we dont have a clash,I dont think we actually,"we do,we dont, <Name>s got pilates and I got dads group but that should all be done my 3,yep, dads in the park mate,just a bunch of dads, in a park..,hanging out, with their babies/kids,so much fun,its the robinsons reserve neighbourhood house or something, seems theres a lot of other stay at home dads in coburg,well we arent all blessed with such extensive dad-networks. geez,*sarcastic tone*,I've been in trouble before for my sarcasm on facechats,just cov<Name>g my buns,hows pip?,running and talking, what a multitasker,ooh yeah, cant wait for that,how old is he now?,geezus, he'll be out of home soon. And by out of home means he'll figure out how to use the gate,wow that grammer was atrocious,GRAMMAR,ARGH,yar har, what a dude,have em young you wont have that problem, grandpa,just kidding, im sure you are probably healthier than i am,<Name> will be a leash kid I think,hm... so leash, and google maps?,I'm sure they'll develop some sort of wireless traking chip, like they put on cattle,see ya saturday,take it easy,Hey paul, how ya doing? mum has a single bed base made by opa which she hasn't got room for at her new place, was wonderingif you or any of the cousins might want to keep it in the family? Otherwise it might go to hard rubbish/the op shop.,Could ya maybe ask around with the cousins? Not sure if I have them on facebook. We are gunna be picking it up on saturday. Just cause mum doesn't have the space, and we don't really have the space to store it for now. We might be able to store it at <Name>'s place in thornbury, but ill get back to you on that.,Hey paul, <Name>s got work til 3PM tomorrow, just got her shift, so dunno if we can pop round in the morning, are you guys round in the afternoon?,Righton, we'll pop round about 3:30ish then!! Whats ya address?,Oh yeah, maybe we'll swing by after then, like 5ish,Dont want to cut into you and debs precious naptime activities!,The golden hours,Hey Paul, hows it going? Hows Pip?I was thinking about upgrading my Macbook with a SSD and new battery at some point (after funds replenish post-wedding) and was wonderingif you had any recommendations for solid state drives as far as brands etc?,That's what I've got as far as model number info,so Macbook 6, 1 - Unibody Late 2009,I think its A1342 for model number,Cool cool! That'd be great matey. I was wonderingwhether itd be worth pouring cash into it but I just need some more processing power for the audio/video stuff I'm doing for Uni. New macbook pros are pretty damn pricey too. Not ruling out a windows machine either but have kinda gotten used to Mac workflow.,I could probs build a desktop, but people dont build laptops do they?,true. There are distinct advantages for using a mac over PC for music production though which is why they have such a stranglehold on the audio pofessional market.,Woah Link party. I'll take a look at these. Getting rid of the optical drive and putting an ssd into that sata slot looks like a really good idea, so like main OS and crucial Apps on the SSD and photos and music and crap on the platter drive?,woah! last time I saw the CPL site it was just a huge pdf catalogue, they've upgraded,   would work right?,Keep an eye out for ssds if ya see any around. Wouldn't mind testing one out to see if it actually makes a difference on my ailing Mac,Do you have one of those torx driver things? Think I'm gunna wait a bit til we have more $$$ following the wedding then get a Samsung evo 850 ssd. Got a USB to SATA enclosure too so should be able to just clone my drive to SSD then chuck it in apparently.,So you have magic,Cooloes! I was gunna use this program called super duper! Apparently spider to be pretty good at making a bootable clone, though if I had a Mac OS disk is probably just do a fresh install and then add stuff as I needed from the old drive to avoid clutter.,supposed,maybe ill just buy this400 bucks what a bargain\   "Hey Paul hows it going?  casually looking for a new laptop, preferably Macbook, let me know if you hear of anyone trying to offload one for cheap,I am disregarding the whole 2016 line altogether coz it looks like they only really made them thinner, took off ports and didn't change performance that much. I tried doing hackintosh on my desktop at home (Dell XPS 8300) but was fairly buggy and couldnt get wifi to work. I reckon if I was building a new tower or desktop I'd totally choose component for hackintosh but might just have to shell out for a macbook pro (2014-2015) 15 inch which is way better specced than the low end 13 inches out now.,thats where I'm at. Or just go windows and get something with a really good quad core for like a grand,yeah, thats what gets me. I want something future proof so want like 16gbs ram and a i7 hq processor I reckon. Audio and Video editing for art school got me pushing my macbook to the limit. Gaming laptops are all styled to be something out of blade runner? I hate the fact you literally pay 1000 dollars more for an OS though, I spose hackintosh is kinda made for people like me. I use bootcamp anyway.,haha, not ragging on alienwares, just not my style,they are fairly well specced,Yeah I totally need that, been doing some command line scripting stuff with video and it destroys my cpu,is ther emuch difference between the 6th and 7th generation intels do ya reckon?,like 6700hq vs whatever the 7th gen equivalent is,cool, yeah thats where I'm up to. I gues with windoews stuff I can always upgrade the ram and HDD later on, but the processor is soldered on so I'd rather drop cash on processor than like 32gigs of ram in an old machine,haha, yeah I guess its all relative. I havent had a new laptop...ever so I spoe anything I get will be way faster than what I have,dang,yeah seems to be the future, I couldnt really fidn many 2017 laptops that had 2.5" boot drives,have you ever seen/used a metabox laptop? they seem spretty well specced and customizable but I dunno bout the build qualityMetabox Laptops - Official Metabox Site Australia,whoops thats just text,I think as far as demographics go I'm in the "mulitmedia" oeuvre, as in I don't need the fastest possible processor, just something fast enough to not szturggle with photo/video editing stuff as much as my current one\   "also was looking at this, \   "haha, yeah I'm not fussed about touch screen or not,nah they're aus,yeah like they seem pretty well priced and upgradable,hey paul, do ya have any experience with website building? Trying to get my head around the difference between domain name registration and hosting.,Cool, so I gotta shell out for both domain name and hosting,and that site is jsut a set of files/code hosted on a server somewhere,haha, in laymans terms obvs.,So once I register domain/ pick host, then what? upload files to the server and point to them with some sort of API or frontend?,Trying to make an artist website, blog/photos/audio/videos and CV, past exhibitions and stuff.,Yeah, scratched my head over it for a long time. Seems kind of necessary nowadays if just as a hub for larger social media/web presence.,Yeah, a friend was saying I could register a domain and then point it to a wordpress site using DNS or something?,like, host content on dropbox/google drive, embed in wordpress and then redirect domain name,Probably have more research to do!,Okay cool, I'll do some more digging and see what I can find. Not pulling the trigger on anything yet. How you doing anyway? Feel like I'm always asking you for advice!,haha, oh god, will wait to see how that turns out,I'm sure she appreciates it, was saying the other day how she was ready to get back in the game she thinks,Oh yeah, lots of loose ends just flailing about,ooh yeah, got something happening nowwww.liamfpower.com,Made it pretty high resolution so it would stretch across the screen,Tried a bit of css tweaking to try and get it in the background but couldn't pull it off,Haha, don't wanna go down the rabbit hole. Not tooo bad to learn so far though. Though I'm just doing margins and floats and junk,I'm using cargo collective templates so don't have full edit privileges, just tweaking so far,,That sounds great man. I'll take some photos to show ya the condition in a sec. It didn't come with a power supply but I just use a 9v boss style and it works fine.,I'm in Pascoe vale south, but can meet in the CBD as well.,Got an 85mb card for it. Will try and find a power supply if you need one. I ran it off AAs most of the time though. Some really minor scuffs on the case. I'm free tomorrow all day pretty much.,I'm 0413 908 067, if you have a guitar pedal power supply, that's the one it takes. I'll throw one in though no stress.,Yeah I just used these guys most of the time. there is a 1/4' mic input but its super easy to overload. Good for a bit of distortion but hard to work with.,It gets really grungy when you record on standard or high and then pitch things down to low,its good for like an old school sampler fx box,haha was just saying that,yeah its really good for that. really muddies up the waters and adds a bit of weird compression,definitely has a 'vibe' that I haven't been able to recreate through software,yeah, great for drum loops and stuff,just as long as you arent thinking of using it for much sample playback, cause its a bit limited on that front,cool, then you'll love it,yeah, what's up man?,cool, in the CBD? I'm at RMIT so anywhere around there would be good.,I'm at pascoe vale pretty mcuh all day cept for a coupel of hours round lunch. I can arrange to be home at 4 though no stress,Alright cool I'll probably be in in Pascoe Vale South tomorrow but gimme a buzz and check just in case.,talk then man,haha will do,damn slow,how you doin?,,haha I did exactly the same thing and was hoping that it wasn't creepy,Never sure what the etiquette with Facebook and jazz is,thank fark,yeah u got a cute life,nice,haha, glad we're on the same lvel of creepiness,man today was kinda sad, sound a vision was a pretty good class.,Man, I've been using News Feed Eradicator though and that has been really good! I mean the irony I think is that most people are regretting their lack of networking while at the same time feeling somewhat powerless about it. I just like discussing people's work and seeing them come up with shit completely out of my scope. Its refreshing especially when you get in your own head sometimes.,Heart chunks of knowledge,yeah, I really like the multidisciplinary classes for a different perspective. I frigging love pure sound classes but they do attract a certain aesthetic,totally, what are you doing next semester?,fair call, talk later,left literally mid thought,I just finished my last bit of work for the semester!,so much journalling,fake it til ya make it. Pretty sure casual tutors aren't meticulously reading over each journal entry in their spare time anyway,\u201cOh its friday night, I think I'll stay in and read subjective opinions about some kids artistic process",Oh wait yeah <name> probably does.,He's some sort of art robot,Please insert context,Pretty sur emote of his artistic career has been based upon interpreting, documenting and then executing ideas based upon influences.,Oh wait isn't that most people lol,No man is an island,fuck so glad I'm done this semester was god but it was a hard slog. Fuck my own standards are impossibly high.,why do I do this shit to myself I could have been an engineer dealign with solid objective facts which I couldn't doubt,yeah but money can be exchanged for goods and services,Oh but when you are that level you won't need to explain, your reputation will do the explaining for you,only 5 years til that first paid gig. Yeah beatnik fantasies. Since I gave up my musical output has suffered,Hard to focus when ya need to have a fag break every four or so though.,Nar, I went cold turkey,well I've had a few occasionally while on the piss, but pretty damn good since first of Jan,first time I've stuck with a new years resolution past,\u2026march,started going for long meditative walks instead,hah thanks,oh geez, now the bliss of death is even further away,I aint 27!,I'm 26,farg,why, cause I am so wise?,I do spend most of my time with a two year old,keeps ya fresh,wait, how old are you?,Fuck off,Haha, yeah well its a hard fight,I dunno, I'm really terrible at judging peoples age,somewhere between 20 and 25,haha,fuckin do I,Christmas is a fun time of year,Not really actually, everyone is really happy that <Name> has a dad in his life which is so involved. Luckily there is a lot of strong matriarchs who are like \u201cDomestic work is undervalued in our society\u201d, so they see me full time stay at home thing as a valid pursuit.,Its just hard to explain to them what it is I actually do at university. Convincing them its not self indulgent,personally I think working full time to acquire property and material goods to be pretty indulgent tbh,True, not saying that 9-5ers are evil, just saying that working for money and working for art are similar in their levels of self indulgence,I think you can bump down to two subjects but if you get youth allowance then yr fuckeyed,Yeah I did that this semester, cause I was going through some shit at the start of the year and wasn't super mentally prepared for a full workload,plus we was super broke so could only have daycare 2 days a week,Yeah, and its still considered full time,look up the EFTSL though, they might have changed it.,equivalent full time study load,should be on the centrelink youth allowance website,yeah,do a summer subject!,they are really good. its like 2 weeks int he middle of jan,yeah, so you go like 9-5 for two weeks and get a whole 6 month course <Name>e in two weeks,the object in sculpture and sound is super great,I did the semester long version, but the intensive one is based around sculptures and objects in space (vague), I think in the intensive you learn how to make your own sound sculptures and then develop them over the two week period,I've heard its really cool. The semester long one was fuckign awesome. Its robbie from spatial practice and Carmen Reid who is a really cool artist too,highly reccomend,otherwise save one of your electives and do a summer course in frigging cabinet making or something,haha, new term,yeah totally, try your hand at different things while you're at uni I reckon,yeah most of the time you can just rock up,and when most of the class drops out in week 2 you're home free,Its like everyone read some book that told them that all the most successful artists are art school dropouts,Fuck I hate stories like that. Orson Welles made citizen Kane when he was 21,Oh man I'm a reformed recommendation addict,=\\\\\\\\\\\\\\]]]\\,sorry cat on keyboard,haha, that woulda been rough,haha, that sounds like a blast,you know there are shops where you can buy music on CDs,the problem is, that by the time the next one came out, the last one wasn't that fresh anymore,haha your life,nostalgia rules,thats great,lol,I can't believe that I am nostalgic about having dial up internet,the other day I was all like \u201chaha you couldn't even use the phone at the same time!",man, your sound artist bio will be so easy to put together,\u201cFrom an early age, she was experimenting with different sonic textures, with a fascination with electronic noise forming much her embryonic material",ten bucks a word,fuck yeah can't wait to ride them coat tails,I gotta split, good chats though,yeah for sure, I'll have a drig around one of me drives,dig,hehe, I'll have a looksee but yeah my internet sucks balls so might take a while to upload,Yeah would defs be easier,ok cool made a little pack up for ya,all super raw stuff though, nothing amazing. Could make for some good raw material for manipulation though,ps got some contact mics and preamps and stuff you can borrow if ya want,Here ya go bud, its like 500mb so might take a while to DL\   "The whole thing with preamps is that contact mics directly plugged into inputs on mixers and stuff lose all their bottom end cause of impedance mismatches. So the preamp I built takes the high impedance input of the contact mic and turns it into a low impedance signal for driving a mixer/field recorder. Long story short you can get bass from the contact mic with it.,I'll bring it to class on thursday if you remind me.,Yeah,They're actually not that hard to build, just fiddly,I'm too cheap to buy stuff like that so I ordered like 200 discs on ebay for 5 bucks,lol,Yeah, definitely a masochistic hobby,Nar, I just got them from tim catlin,but yeah, I've heard its not too hard with some plasti-dip,I dunno, like 4?,Pretty much, same physical principles at work,Might not be as durable,Yeah and I figure I can alsoways solder some more if they break so nbd,Haha, possibly. Did you wanna buy one? We had an idea for a like gear library for sound kids last year, where people list gear that they have and lend to each other.,never panned out unfortunately,I think people can be a bit possessive,lol,Hehe, hm.. I'll see if I have enough stuff round to make one for ya,Cool,what would you perform?,Nice, that would defs be possible,I did a performance with amplified contact mics through a fence last year, battery powered PA and mixer and a bunch of mics. Was super fun,yeah, like a shit instagram video,I think theres a recording of the performance in that pack I sent you too,Woah double post,Woah digital hygiene,Ooh yeah that balloons out real quick,Yeah, I just bounce them out or delete them if I havent used them for like six months,Haha, but will you?,Your memory will be a pretty good filter,for riffs and ideas,if It was worth recording then itll be worth spending the time rereocrding,re-recording,lol, I'm such an opinonated old man,do what you want with your sessions,You jsut have such relatable problems,Ha, stupid dad insticts make me give advice on literally anything,I dunno, I'm in flux. Went omputerless and was using my field recorder to catch jams/ideas. But I switch between abelton for composing and then bounce stems out to reaper for mixing.,*computerless,reaper for audio stuff, like microediting and junk. Ableton for composing/arranging I spose,Yeah, protools is shit,I suck at protools too,Its pretty uninituitive. Like key shortcuts or menu dives for stuff which should be on a panel or soemthing,Yeah, you can use ableton but it takes a little bit of finagling,Protools is definitely really good to learn if you wanna work in the audio industry though,I should brush up really,Just do it while you are at school gettign paid for it,Do the lynda courses, they are actually really good,Totally ask <Name> cecil too, I'm sure he knows protools inside and out too,<name> is a bit of a protools expert as well,Haha, <name> is fine!,He knows his shit,but ya know, he's just a dude,Haha, fair call,Das cool there's like 4 sound students in second year now we gotta help each other out,Ooh yeah, I got some stuff I think,all my stuff is on liamfpower.com now,also VLF stuff here\   "Yeah, I somehow managed to wrangle that,liampower was taken though,some syndeney musuican guy stealing all my googles,Thinks he's top shit,stupid common irish name,gunna get some business cards too go full corporate,lol yeah, I think you're home free,yeah, solo stuff,Some super demoey stuff on there too,trying to shift to using soudncloud for demos and bandcamp for releases,one day,Yeah, I mean if I had $$$ I'd be getting records done,my old band made a tape, felt so good to have a tactile outcome of all that recording and rehearsing and stuff,where's your stuff?,love a rummage,gotta get headphones,ooh fb track is grimy,ooh, vocals are on point,nah, the one you posted jsut now,Man, you doing all the octave harmonies and junk?,I was like, wtf is dat range,I have half an octave range lol,jsut smoke some fagsa,drink some whisky,you'll get there,hehe,   sound art soundcloud,Yeah that was me experimenting with making ambience and sound effects from scratch. Trying to synthesize world's and experiences and junk,Stop complimenting me I am really abd at accepting conpliments,Haha,Oh you know just some sketches really,You mean, like editing sounds together?,Or plug-ins or whatever?,Woah that was a haiku,Yeah. I use cracked izotope rx4 for cleaning up, denoising. Then I kind of work frequentially I spose. Think about what I want the whole thing to sound like and experiment with fx and stuff til I get something which approaches what I hear in my subconscious,PS here's my old band's EP.    "Me on guitar and vox,Fuck, I always forget how much shit I've done,Will be useful when trying to secure employment in the future I imagine,Hehe, bring five bucks to class and I'll give ya a tape,I've gotten that before :(,Haha, thats why we did tape and digital release,we used tape because we knew people would probably just want the physcial artifact more than actually playing them. Plus it was like 100 bucks for a run of 50,Plus I know quite a few people that are like "I play it in my car all the time cause its like one of the only tapes I own",Thats cool, yeah I think people jsut want something they can actually touch and hold, and doesnt matter much what it is.,Makes things seem more real,haha, so funny that we draw the line between them still,Seems so anachronistic,I think its about connecting with something, its so easy to get a flood of information/content whevener you open your browser. If you have just one tactile expression of something then you are forced to focus on it and judge it relative only to itself, rather than the other 35 browser tabs you have open,Yeah, I there's always some disconnect. That's why I like overproduction shit and experimenting in the studio, it'd never gunna be an actual representation of a performance anyway so might as well have fun with it,Good luck,See you on the other side,Through the doors of perception,Day of rest,Picnic with me fam,Nah, all I got is what's on blackboard. I think we had to make a Google drive folder and hare it with him,Hey <Name>'s got an inner ear infection so gotta stay home from childcare today. Can you be my eyes in class today if you're going?,Hell be fine got some antibiotics but hes real sad \ude22\ude22\ude22,Haha, why daddy!,Gunna make a cubby today and have a picnic on the lounge room floor haha,Yeah will set up my stereo in four channel mode and blast noise at him that'll make him feel better,Geez, not that I can remember,WTF school of art!!!,maybe try emailing <Name> brophy philip.brophy@rmit.edu.au,Okay cool,Happened last year with <name> a few times. He jsut didnt show up til 10 and was like "soz guys",Had a few 9:30 classes that just naturally ended up starting at 10 coz people were late.,<name> is probably skipping class this week due to his show opening next week, <name> may or may not be pissed at the <name> and boycotting,Probably just poyring antibiotics down a toddlers throat and watching daddy finger youtubes,Stick in there! Don't let the general apathy and malaise of the sound kids get you down,Dang,Pretty sure our third year major classes are with him,Will livestream,Cool! I'll see if I can make it in tomorrow morning to grab it off you,Unless ya wanna upload it online,Cool beans. Thanks matey,Ps did ya see updated assessment outline for expanding practice? We gotta do a presentation of works that we like,Nah, its next week or wk 4,,Yeah I think so thank gawd,This new assessment outline looks way better tbh,More mature. I wonder how the audio tech 1b kids will do with it,Ohhahh will check it out thonx,yeah bud, I'm all over in. after class thursday? <Name> Cecil told me not to show up coz he's doing how to sound or whatevs.,I woulda had to get my sister to come round and whatnots and I was like not really worth it,ps did you have anything you wanted me to bring up at SSCC meeting? Any concerns you might have about sound or whatvs?,okay cool lemme know my tuesday so I can yell at people about it,Hm, I coudl ask for us to get access to the pod as well for performances and stuff. Its got a pretty sweet surround set up. Yeah I think you just need like 5 speakers and a multi channel sounccard and a space you can do it in.,Oh okay cool, do you have it on your gogole calendar thing?,Yeah, problem is getting 6 active monitors,or 5 and a sub if you wanna be fancy,probs dont need sub,need a big ol powerboard,Well I think the assumption is that you present it in the immersive room for the assignment and then if you were to xhibit it somewhere then you'd figure out logistics yourself,Last year they were talking about finagling a multi purpose performance space for sound students. Maybe I should push for that.,Like an actual room whcih was set up to be acoustically okay but big enough to fit people in for perfonaces/testing ideas,Yeah, immersive room is good for mixing but not very good to pilot actual projects,pretty sure painting and sculpture students have multi putpose rooms, as well as their studios to set stuff up and trial stuff,Sounds used to have that too, they jsut got rid of it. My friend <Name>started in liek 2014 and they had a computer room jsut for sound students with synths and junk in it,was cool,reckon we gotta pick our battles. Last SSCC meeting I was at sound got fucked over coz we were asking too many things,And they were just like "there's not funding",If we ask to shoehorn existing resources we will have a better chance of getting things done IMO,We had that idea last year too. They were like "maybe",I'll mention it to them. Its a joint sscc with sculpture though so not sure how much I'll get to discuss,haha,do you guys have any, speakers how many? Midi junk, how much? mixers, how many?,jsut for a project,CALLED LIFE,yeah, they have PAs,,not sure if they have active monitors which you would need, but I'm sure they do,yeah they have lots of stereo stuff,just go quad, so much easier for logistics,tried it the other day with my stereo and studio monitors,sounded okay,not for mixing but for testing out ideas,yeah, you gota use the computer there coz the soundcard is thunderbolt and like, attached to the back of the computer,haha you always ask the same questions I do,I think its up to date,9.7 or whatevs,ooh yeah. They are usually pretty good with software stuff,coz they're like "kids today are all about plugins and whatnot",you and 99 percent of the people making music and sound today,toilet roll,pvc pipe,contact mic on alfoil over a coathanger,haha,while doing dishes,at the equinox,during the 13th blue moonth,yeah of the fish,year,win or lose,there is a massive grey area in the middle,CALLED LIFE,man I am brimming with ideas,too many ideas,too many to ever realise,so many shitty ideas,haha,I got some stuff ont he boiler,nah my ideas are gold just being modest,Feeling pretty good about this performance piece I'm working on,did a pilot thing the other day and got real good feedback,its just me telling stories from my incredibly depressing life through a delay of 175/200ms 100 percent wet,at that level the delay causes complete breakdown of the neural pathways used to create speech,so I completely fuckigns shit myself on stage,like impossible to express words properly,induces stress and anxiety,its kind of coming from me having had a lot of shitty things happen to me in the past but not really opening up about it or using it in my art at all,and wanting to make more personal statements is really fucking hard for me to do,so if I make it even harder for myself, then I will do it,sounds warped I know,totally,for some reason its easier to work through shit when you are performing it than having a <Name> conversation with somebody,nah they can understand me kind of, I just can't say what I want to say,its a wierd phenomenon,its like stutt<Name>g,yeah, like uou are in control of the setup of the performance, and then you relinquish control when you are actually doing it,Oh I will I'm already writing the score for the final presentation,gunna be video projection, delayed voice and synthesized soundscape,Nah, performance and live art,ps here's what it sounds like,,yeah dude I'll let you knwo when people are presenting assessments and stuff,ps just let me know if you need help with setting stuff up, consid<Name>g theres like 5 peeps in second year we gotta help each other outside of class too I reckon,haha first story isn't that bad,nah, I'm gunna try and get a job teaching after I finish honours probs so I literally need to learn how to help people out with this shit,you are doing ME a favour,please let me help you,yeah bedtime for me,oh wait,nah gotta go,laterzzz,Yeah I'm going. I'll let ya know what we get up to,DW about it everybody gets sick. I'll let you know what you missed. Rest up and drink heaps of water and watch trashy TV and don't stress about anything and you'll be better in no time.,Haha sorry automatic dad concern,Fucking happens all the time,Seriously if you are taking a day off do sweet fuck all and don't feel guilty, otherwise you live in some weird limbo place,Ooh yeah,\udca4\udca4\udca4\udca4\udca4\udca4\udca4,13 hours sleep total this week so far,Nap standing up now,Napping right now,Microsleeps,Very efficient,Could possibly be exaggerating,Haha sorry we were walking round,lots and lots to talk about form today, I'm gunna write up an email a bti later when I get home",""" "Our new sound common room! We got forms filled out which I will give you to get security access,Its a real nice space,yeah there's a baord the back we can pin stuf up to and I'm sure we can blu tack stuff,like a pinboard,computers have protools and abletton and video editing software adn stuff too,haha. <name> has done a shitload for us so far with this so not pushing too hard. I'm gunna negotiate with the old School of Art about gettign some amenities,that might take a bit longer. btu for now we have a room we can got oo. 24 hour access! more than one person at a time!,go too,we were talking about jsut kinda keeping some gear there. Buy some kensington locks,Haha was thinking bout that the other day. If we get lockers I might just bring in some spares for everyone to use,Hmm think I'll be at home tomorrow but let me know and I'll video call ya or something and help you out with it.,No worries bud. You get that guide I posted on the sound art rmit website?,Nice one, its not oo hard to figure out. I think the 6.1.9 exgterna outs are the same as the pod anyway so jsut follow the guide and ye should be righto. What program do you want to use,Yeah all good, I'll find my template just a seco,,So theres a track with pink noise that you can test the outputs with. Returns are set up to output to the different speakers so if you want the left channel turn up return A and if you want right turn up C etc.,Shouldn't make a difference really?,Unless you are running live 8 or something,Oh right, well yeah I can send you a screenshot of the template and you can make it yourself.,All ya gotta do is make 6 returns and set them to the right outputs,Hey bud, we're sposed to give it in and then he pulls it up on the screen and shows us what's wrong with it/edits it in real time to help us learn or soething,I dunno I'm kinda struggling tbh,Yeah we got nothing except my notes,In class tomorrow I think,I dunno, that's where I am struggling,dunno if I have to do budget, timeline and stuff or just a brief on what I intend to do,yeah,Yeah, I'm pretty sure a few people will be handing it in next week from what I've heard,Fight vagueness with vaguess I say,I've got something but It's pretty basic. Dunno if I'm gunna write a whole proposal for it. Plus I don't know whether it is meant to be a funding proposal or a gallery proposal which are kind of different,I'm not crazy about him pulling up my proposal and dissecting in in front of class, kind gives me a bit of anxiety,Yeah that sounds perf,He mentioned both, but I think he was looking for a one page brief like you are talking about,I think he wanted us o write the brief LIKE we were writing it for a proposal. Its a positive thing that he wants us to start thinking about our projects outside RMIT but he could have been more clear about what he actually wants from us,Yeah I always freak out about proposals though, even if they are just for class,Yeah I think we need to present a possible venue,I'm just going to put "multichannel sound installation ideally in a quiet, dark space",Just the kind of space it would inhabit. Would it be outside or inside kind of thing,Haha, sorry don't wanna freak you out. I thin kits not worht much of our mark. If you know what you want to do it,will be totally fine,He said you should do a drawing to indicate your project as well,I suck at drawing but if that helps you then go for it, he was totally pshing for that too,pushing,Alright I gotta buckle down and finish it. Let me know how you go will probs be up for a while,hey wanna look over mine? I think I'm done.,can do the same for u,Yeah fair call,,Oooh,Haha, but it looks okay to you?,kkk,Like more paragraphs?,Yeah good call, it reads more like an essay now,Yeah good call, subheadings migh thelp break it up,Yeah good call. Its just hard to find images for sound pieces in general I think,alright added headings and did a little edit. I think this fine to go in tomorrow,anxiety eased,how's yours going?,Yeah the more realistically you can place it the better.,I think the objective is to get it so that the person can visualize what it might look/sound like.,Sounds obvious lol,But ya know, its good to keep in mind coz you can get in your head about a project and assume a bunch of knowledge on the part of the other person,like "obviously they would be able to see why a bunch of body sounds through a bunch of speakers is good for society",haha, so fatalistic,nah it is a useful assignment he just should abeen more clear about what he wants,like its probably more important that we learn how to talk about our art and pitch it to other people than it is learning how to mic crap over and over,lol,Its totally a skill that you just have to keep on rehearsing constantly,Its where a lot of the hard, unpaid work in the arts comes from I think. Writing proposals and grants and bios desperately trying to get people to care or come to your show or see what you see in a work,good luck matey, see ya tomorrow,Haha me too,Train delayed,Life delay,Haha if I ever get an enough from art to pay HECs I'll be glad to,Mandatory rock breaking for fine arts alumni,Painting pictures of our exalted leader,History is just a wheel,I know www.stopinsertingyouragendaintomyorivatemessagesyoucorporatejerks.org,Corporatefascism@facebook.com,Haha, okay sounds like I didn't miss anything crucial.,Hey let me know what I miss today and let <Name> know that I'm on track with my project and ready to present next week. Finished the composition and just in the surround mixing stage now.,Yaya,Yeah make new messenger group,Me will and <name>,And Leah too I think,And <name> and <name>,I think?,Haha can't remember,I'll message her and ask,Yeah just a dark room and I'll play from my laptop,Its about 8-9 minutes at the moment,Noice,Oh wait I dont think <name> is in immersive,I seem to remember him telling me he isn't,I dunno. I'll message him too,haha,Okay <name> and <name> aren't in immersive,Oh wait have I? I only did that during the holidays coz I knew noone would be usning it,Speakers are on obvs,Probably the monitor controller,try pushing in the L C R Rs LS buttons on the big volume knob thing?,nah,try it with the imac and see if you can get sound working then you know if its your computer or the system,Are you tryingto run through the aux cable or to the soundcard directly with the thunderbolt port? For stereo you can probably just use the headphoe cable,is the monitor controller on? blue light next to the volume knob?,or is the mute all button down?,it sounds like its the monitor controller that is giving you grief. If you turn up the volume knob all the way with no sound can you hear a little bit of noise through the speakers? that would mean that the controller is sending its sound to the speaks,yeah right it must be some button on the controller,it might be the surround/stereo buttons on the panel? and the L C R Rs Ls buttons have to pushed down methinks,no shit,yeah its annoying,yeah good idea,bit hard for me to help without being there sorry,Hm, export the returns as stems and then put em in protools and pan them to quad and export from protools? I dunno.,I like the sound of that like a pistol shot of shit right into the spinal column. What you filming nowadays? I been noising away in my sunroom, Hows your next week?,Hi Maureen, everything is booked in with the removalists for Friday Arvo. Here are the details for ya.,Hi!why are you sighing?are you fed up with the inevitable fact thatthe end of the world is coming?,it happens,try reading a book or somethingIm off to read the Satanic Verses,,Haha, I'll have a think about shit I need that'll fit in a coat pocket. Always need mic cables and guitar cables and shit like that. If ya bring the gear to me or meet up in the city or something I can take a look at it and tell ya if I reckon I can fix it before we trade anything if that works?,That I know, and that I think I can pull of a six degrees operation with you on. Was there a girl in your lit class named Yalei Wang? Down deakin waterfront. If you knew her you'll remember her.,Yeah I know, I got feelers all over town. Networking is part of the job description. Well anyway, to complete the circle, I think you should add her on facebook and talk to her, shes real cool and I dunno how much intellectual stimulation happens down in geelong but all I know is that last time I was there  bay city plaza destroyed my soul, and I'd take all that I can get. Hows music going by the way?,Hey Julian how'd ya pull up? Just wanted to say thanks for the other night. Shits real raw with me still so good to see there are other people in the same boat who have their shit together somewhat. Let's get coffee sometime eh?,Hi from Australia, I've got a Akai S3200XL with a dim, unreadable backlight. wonderingif you had a replacement backlight available & how much it would cost to ship to Aus? Thanks,Hey Matt thanks for your quote. Sorry but turns out a friend had a parts machine I was able to grab an EL panel from, will definitely let you know if I need one in the future.,Hey Guys, Me llamo es Liam Power. Dunno if you remember but we played that show at the tote front bar in september. I was wonderingif you guys wanted to play a show at the tote in November? We are launching and EP and would love to have you guys along. Its on the 26th which is a thursday.,Hey man, any updates on whether ya can play or not? I know its the night before paradise music fest, so no big deal if ya cant!,Hey guys, I'm the lead singer of savage nobles, I saw you guys at the old bar, and was fairly hypnotized. Was thinking that we should play a show together at some point? We have just released out first EP. Here it is if ya want to have a look. \   "Hey Chris/Sarah/Andrew,Are you guys doing any shows in the near future, as I was thinking about putting something together with you guys, Cable Ties, <name>, and someone else in mid jan. You would probs headline and would try to do somewhere small EG Grace darling basement, Tote Upstairs. Lemme know if you'd be innerested. Thanks,schwelte! will fish around for venue/dates and keep ya posted. Booking is an arduous and thankless task to be avoided at all costs.,Hm. Might go for late jan then if that's alright?,like 20th-30th?,Shityeah, I'll get on the blower to a couple of other guys, anyone you've been itching to play with/ have played with before you liked?,Cool, I'll get in touch with them about it and let ya know when I have more details,Oh geez. Sorry i flaked hard on that gig. Half the band got evicted in january so we were fairly distracted. We do have a show booked at Dane Certificates on the 19th of March and would love to play with you guys if you're interested!,Awesome. Thanks matey.,Hell yeah, ill let ya know when i got more deets equipment/ workwheet wise etc.,Hey guys, here's the facebook event for the show. Our tapes arrived so we'll be selling them on the night if that's alright. You guys are welcome to sell some merch too obviously. Would you ugys know anyone who might want to do sound? Our Bass player can do it for you guys, if one of your is cool with mixing us?\   "Sweetness, I'll let my bass player know.,Hey guys, we're putting together a run sheet for saturday night but so far its <name> 9:15<name> 10:00<name> 10:45Any special backline requests? We will bring bass amp cab and drumkit if you bring snare and cymbals. Also I might need to use one of your guitar amps if possible, generally use amp distortion so lemme know if that would be a prob. Lemme know if you have any questions! Otherwise seeya saturday!,Cool man, will keep in touch with any issues if they arise. Pretty sure that's everything though. Transporting shit from footscray so if we forget a pedal and its 8:30 will definitely hit ya up.,Also gimme a ring on <number> if ya need anything.,So we should have access to load in from 7, ideally we would like to be finished with soundchecks before 8:40, let me know if thats alright.,No need, im gunna bring mine so no big deal, you can show up early if ya want to but just so we can soundcheck you guys before doors.,Thanks heaps for playing last night mateys! Let us know if ya wanna book another show at some point we can get on it. Spinning 7" now. Tasty.,Right back at ya bud!,Hey guys, its Liam here, played with you at the Front Bar a while ago in September, loved that shit! Dunno whether you remember I was talking about my band <name>, and that we were looking to play a launch for our EP at the tote.I see you guys are going on tour but maybe afterwards we could maybe a play a show? Here's the link    "Sounds good matey! was just gauging possible interest and collating synergistic profit margins. Should do something in the new year for sure. Thanks for getting back to me, might see ya at that show, sounds like a banger.,Hi, been using this app with the monotron as a mod source and it works great! How hard would it be to add a little 1 octave cv sequencer to this app? I would definitely buy that.,Hi Linh, Thanks for getting in touch. The bike got a bit roughed up, as we suspect it was thrown from the highway bridge! Probably needs a bit of a service, but we managed to find a new baby seat.  Happy to help with any info needed for a story. CheersLiam Power,Hey linh, contact number is <number>. I'm in class til 4:30 but can call after then Thanks Liam,   "Well you gotta lie a little bit sometimes to sell the goods, think of me as a politician.,Oh yeah, twelve times over. I'm pretty sure he's got an oedipus complex. He's another one of those guys that seems to love being ignored by me, must get off on it or something.,I would be too. What a dickslammer.,hey yalei, how ya doin?,Ah I'm gettin better, one day at a time kinda thing,it pretty fuckin painful though,6 broken ribs,yeah, a whole side,sunday to friday,they cleared me for all the neurological and spinal shit, and then they let me out,cause they cant really do much with broken ribs, ya just gotta wait it out,I got about 6 weeks to go before I'm boogiein around though,yeah, caunt do much else cause of the stairs,I slipped off the fuckin thing,it had been raining, and it got slippery,jackson was with me, but he was passed out someplace,did I tell ya the story?,had a bit of a tumble off of that railway bridge that runs over merri creek. Was taking a squizz and slipped right over, got knocked unconscious and woke up in the water about a minute later with 6 broken ribs and a head wound, the creek was pretty high and the current took me along, and I swam out and crawled up the bank to Rushall station, where I climbed up on the train platform and caught the train, the train driver called the cops on me. I looked like some soaking wet bastard, cause my jacket had been ripped in half and my clothes were in shreds, and I was bleeding heavily.. anyway, got stopped by the police at reservoir station and got into the ambulance and driven to the royal melbourne, where I was cleared for spinal and neurological injuries but got a couple of stitches in the head and 6 broken ribs.,its fucked, I keep having nightmares,yeah, I think what happened was that I fell, broke the ribs, and that woke me up, and I gasped with the pain and inhaled all this water,fuck yeah, well I lived to tell the tale,makes you sort of appreciative of everything and everyone,Totale NDE,but ya know, I couldnt really swin beforehand,I can swin now,swim,I lived because I swam,yeah , I think the subconscious survival mechanism kicked in, cause my conscious mind ckinda thought it was a dream,I thought  I was in a nightmare at the time, and that I would wake up and it would all end,but I havent woke up yet,ha ha,yeah, well it was kinda nightmarish, I think I had a concussion, so It didnt feel like I had become fully conscious, so it was kind of like I had slipped from one stage of sleep to another, cause I felt no pain til lalter,yeah, I mean, it doesnt feel quite real,except for the pain,thats real,but like, they cleared me psychologically and stuff,its probably the pain meds to be honest,they are slightly psychoactive,anyway I gotta motor, see ya round yalei,hey yeah thanks a lot!Nah im ok, just kinda confused at the momentI appreciate you giving a shit, I mean, you really don't have to haha,No credit. Movie is over, we're at bay city cinema. Give Liam a call when you get this xx,Hey Cathy how are you doing? Was just wonderingwhat your plans were for the week starting the 4th of feb? <Name> told me you'd be down in melborune for the week possibly and I have to install at the gallery but have nobody to watch <Name> for a couple of hours monday and tuesday while I  go. Do you think you could watch him/ take him out a bit on those days possibly?,Hey Cathy how are you doing? Was just wonderingwhat your plans were for the week starting the 4th of feb? <Name> told me you'd be down in melbourne for the week possibly and I have to install at the gallery but have nobody to watch <Name> for a couple of hours monday and tuesday while I  go. Do you think you could watch him/ take him out a bit on those days possibly?,Oh great! <Name>'s at daycare wednesday thursday and friday so no problems there. You're a life saver! Would just need a couple of hours monday and tuesday  in the afternoon if you can swing that while I go into the city.,Hey Cathy, what are your movements tomorrow? I've gotta go to a meeting and meet up with the staff/ pick up the keys at the gallery at 5:30 and <Name> will get home at like 6ish. If you are free it'd be super helpful if you can come hang round with <Name>/take him out at 4ish and then I can head into the city. Let me know if that's ok. Thanks x,Awesome yes that would be great,he's got his music lesson at 10.45 on tuesday too. I'll send you the details,   in brunswick west, just gotta get the 58 tram down to victoria st and its roudn the back of the church on the corner. He needs his yellow bag and his music book which I'll have ready for ya when you show up on tuesday morning.,So my plans are to go into the gallery this afternoon to meet with the other artists and figure out where we are putting our works. I'll need to stay there til later on, like 7.30 so <Name> will come home and you guys can sort out dinner and stuff maybe?,Great, thanks cathy,Cool, see ya soon!,Great, its probably a 10 minute drive so all good. <Name>'s dressed and bags packed.,Hey I'm just at the gallery doing some stuff but I can head home whenever you need. How'dms it going?,Okay cool I'll finish up here and grab the tram. I'll shoot for 430. Thanks cathy,That's good I'm glad he gets to spend some time with his tati!,On the 58 now. Should be about half an hour,I'm down. Can probs buy an FM outright for 150ish now that I think of it. When ya free to pop by and grab it?,Hey I just had someone offer me their FM for straight trade so might go with them if that's okay?,thanks. Sorry bout that.,I loved it! Used it like every day for a year, sounds great and super fun to use. But I got a MPC1000 and do all my drum programming on that now coz its a bit more song-oriented. I'd say the limitations of the volca were really good and creative for me for a while. But I ended up getting annoyed with the seperate midi channels for each voice and you can't do unquantized stuff which I'm moving towards more now.,Yeah they have a surprising amount of bass actually! Used it a few times live and it was shakin cones like nothing else.,Cool laters good luck in ya search,Hey bud! How ya doing? When a good time for to pop by and grab the KP?,I'm good. Working on a video art piece for an exhibition in Feb and a new EP for release when $$$ and time permits. How bout you? I'll be in the city at RMIT 9-5 today tomorrow and friday. Could possibly come round this afternoon?,Cool bananas. Yeah tomorrow morning round this time might be good? Wherebouts are ya?,Perfect, I'll drop by on my way into the city, see ya round 11ish tomorrow,Hey bud on my way in now. I'll be at yours round 11.,Glenn Branca \u2013 The Ascension\   to New York Noise Albums\   Image Limited Metal Box Album\   Harvey \u2013 Rid of Me\   to many NO WAVE releases\   of Romance\   "Im sure I know you from somewhere? was it boston '44?I'm sure it was!Remember when jimmy ate that propagation and it fell all over his ASS causing Himalayan liver damage?,Just tell me right now if you are having an affair with this Chris Lewis guy. I've seen him commenting your profile, tell him about your marriage for gods sake! You don't see me with dudes called Chris Lewis leching around my profile do you? I advise you to stop this absurd affair and return to me immediately.Yours, in earnest.Liam Power,"Chris Lewis is merely a high school chum of mine"So now we are talking about his physical attributes or states of drug induced consciousness are we, how do you know these intimate details of him?"I also have seen a Chris Lewis 'leching around' on your profile- perhaps you have not? Keep a keen eye out, Mr Power.."This is a blatant fallacy miss, and without reason, if such a man as Chris Lewis was cavorting around the dusty halls of my profile, I would indeed eject him immediately for truancy and attempt to undermine the royal order.GOOD DAY!,Ay lass, ay.,Goodoo, ill talk to you on facechat right now,Well, I suppose you have made your decision. I'm sorry for wanting to get back into your life, to see what you are doing and stuff. I mean, we were friends for a while too, despite all our romantic shit, and that had some worth. I'm sorry if you don't dig the "new" me, and that you can't handle what I've become. I accepted that you had changed, perhaps was forced to change after all that happened with us. I was. I never judged what you became, I  was just happy to see you living and digging life in your own way. You may condemn me all you like for who I've become, I am happy now, I am stable. I wish I could say the same for you, who swings between desire and fear like a fucking pendulum. I tried to see past the mental shit, the mind games and the lies which you must have dreamt up to get back at me, I was curious to see who you are,  and, even after all our shit, I still think you are a cool person that will do something great one day whatever it is.  I know you will.As for our conversation the other night, I dug the moral high ground for a while, a couple of months after we broke up, I mean, I had to to try and pull myself out of the massive shitfuck that we created with our lies and shit, but I don't condemn you now. I guess, I have perspective on the whole thing, I understand that it wasn't your fault. I was just fucked up then, so were you, and we fucked everything with our instability and our insecurity.  But shit like that happens all the time. Its part of life. You're not 'easily gotten rid of' as you think you are though, and I still get fucked up about you sometimes, when I hear about you, a rumour or something, and then I seize up. You really fucked me up <name>, and by the sound of it I fucked you up as well. I'm not proud of this, I don't want to fucking hurt anyone by my presence, and I want you to have a good life, and I suppose that means without any trace of me, the deranged philosophical wanker. By the way, at least my delusion is fucking personal, not your bullshit fucking cry for help bitchy shit which causes you to fucking want attention so much, hate yourself so much that you want to lose yourself in others cause you find yourself so fucking empty and dead and fucking evil, your self loathing runs so deep that it spills out onto others, causing them to loathe themselves as well.  And your fucking life goal is to find the truth in others, while avoiding your own fucking stupid immature ugly evil two timing cheating bitch mindgameplaying fucking ugly reality of your own malformed grudgeholding unstable insane creepy soul.  Hve fun hurting people for the rest of your life, engaging in a fuckload of shitty unhappy relationships with people and friends that will probably hate you and you will take it cause you are so fucking DISSOCIATED from reality that you have no concept of yourself except as a reflection of other people. Fucking crazy cunt.,ah christ what a babe,This sounds fucky but I had a really vivid dream last night that you were in. You and your folks had moved into some Victorian mansion with trellises and creeping vines and shit all over the place. I walked up to the front door and it fell inward and crushed some animal. Then you came out and you were singing and we got in your car and drove out to some real shitty suburb and started crashing through the middle if houses, right through the living rooms & bedrooms and scatt<Name>g peoples patio furniture everywhere. I can't really remember the rest, but I thought I should warn you not to drive for a while, (if you drive) or something. Also we should maybe get coffee one of these days.,Whoops I just scrolled up, 2010 was a bad year.,Fucky doo. Don't let me in the car, I seem to remember the last drive to warnambool, beer can got stuck under the brake. And someone vomited in the air con vents, a.. Ugh.. Friend of a friend. But it is refreshing getting out of melbourne sometimes.,Is relaxing getting out of Melbourne for a while.,Ah, gotta go through the little otway roads and get lost and end up at some bar somewhere eating a bubble o bill.,Great ocean road is fucked though.,It does.,Exactly, and the scenery is beautiful in parts so you look at some cliffs or something and some asshole with a campervan starts tailgating you and ruining your appreciation for natural beauty.,Hey Anne,yeah, turns out clinical trials are the one situation in which being positive for opiates is not to your advantage.  As for the birthday dins, sure thing, I'll just chuck on my high heels and my belly dancer's outfit (in the bedleh style of course) and dance on down.. Haven't heard anything about that Almazetts  place but its near the park as far as I know. Anyway, I would be honoured be present/be a presence at your 30th birthday. See ya there!,yar har, yeah well life goes on in its own grinding and cruel way. how are you? We are just kids anyway, no such thing as a big deal, although it will be hard to get the mortgage split.,Aww shit, Anne, that's a really nice thought. And I'm honoured that even after however many years you still think of me and want to make a contribution, but I reckon it might put you in an awkward situation and that's the last thing I'd wanna do! Besides, luckily for me, my grandparents heard about it and are helping me out to buy a new bike, and definitely a giant lock. But I am honestly touched that you would think to do that. Hope all is well with you and  <name>. Liam xx,Hey  <name> boy, hows it gahn? was wonderingif you and lucy wanted to come over for lunch or something one of these days, maybe next weekend if you're free? By the way lucy is a dream gal, has the LP tick of approval for sure, cept for when she shits in the bath.,have cleaned up countless shits since then bud, saturday afternoon might be good, it is anzac day so pt might be a little shitty, but if youre cool with that we'll see ya saturday round 1 or 2,Hey <name> ya still guna come round for lunch tomorrow?,Unit 1 79 harding street in coburg, feel free to pop round anytime after noon, me and <Name> will just be chillzin,fancy pants,see ya soon,Ey <name>, Here's a preliminary setlist of stuff I think would be good to play at the wedding, its stuff which is meaningful to me & <Name> and also kinda fits the whole 50s/60s/ theme. Would love to throw in a couple of upbeat rockabilly numbers at the end to get everyone charged and to do some shredding. Not sure which ones I would wanna do lead vox on yet but they are all kinda interchangeable with range so I imagine we could get together and figure something out.Jefferson Airplane - TodayBruce Springsteen - State TrooperBruce Springsteen - Highway PatrolmanLee Hazlewood - Look at that womanLee Hazlewood - Hey CowboyNancy & Lee - Summer wine?Charlie Feathers - Wedding Gown of WhiteAlex Chilton - Waltz Across TexasLeonard Cohen - Tonight will be fine60s/surf/rockabilly classics,Imagining band so far as <Name>on cocktail kit, donbass you and me guitars and vocals,Weekends are usually pretty good. Got a shit ton of uni work during the week but might be able to squeeze something in. My place or yours?,Nice one, could possibly work. I think  <name> wa thinking of coming up that day before he jets of to europa. Could kill two birds with one stone,Haha,  <name> the Hermit,Me too, do you wanna play acoustic or electric for the gig?,Cool breans, I'll do electric then,you can amp your acoustic though obviously!,I'm going for a bit of a 50s/60s danceparty theme, so I dunno, J.M & the Phantoms?,haha,will discusss in further detail on sunday,   is a handy playlist of all the songs,gm,<Name> typed that,yasyas,, in no particular order as well,I know, totally fits in with the drunk hillbilly theme I'm going for,That's the description of what I aspire to be on the night,hey hey hey  <name>. Have been meaning to get in touch with you bout that. June is our moth of rehearsals! I've got a fair bit of uni stuff on this week, but should be all done by next week if you're free anytime round then. I reckon one more solo rehearsal then we'll get the boyzzz involved at three phase or something. Have talked to <Name>and <Name>about it and sent them the proposed setlist and theyre keen.,Hey  <name> what ya up to Thursday morning/arvo. If ya wanted to pop round at like 11ish we could have a jammolong,Cool blankets! Are you working Thursday?,Sick well come round in the morning whenever ya want and we will do a couple of hours,Hey <name> what time ya want us to swing by this arvo/tonight? 232 Collins street yeah?,Should be fine I'll check with <Name>. Might try and get <Name> down for a later nap so he can stay up for a bit.,Bloody crowd favourite!,Monday we have taters, Tuesday we have taters, Wednesday we have taters, Thursday we have taters, Friday we have taters, Saturday we have taters, Sunday there's a special treat: we have tater pudding!,All good for 6, <Name> will probably stay up a bit later coz he just went down for a nap,Hey <name>, I just got a whole bunch of assignment info, and it looks like one of my first studio projects is to record an acoustic guitar and vocals. Ya got any songs you might want recorded in the next couple of weeks?,Cool baby. Not due for a couple of weeks but I'll book in a Monday probably if that's still good for you. Will let ya know when I have more details.,PS thanks matey. PPS so I can plan accordingly, do you usually record guitar and vocals desperately or are you happy to overdub to guide track?,Separately,Lol,Guess we'll see on the day. I'm only allowed two tracks I think so we can do both and see which works better for ya,Excited!,Hey <name>, would you be available next week to jump into the studio? Mondays and Wednesdays are good for me, but I can possibly do other days that are good for you?,I'm gunna get there at 10, so maybe 11?,Hey <name> might push it forward to 12 tomorrow, give us a buzz when you're on your way in.,See ya then bud!,Hey Jacki I'm in the studios in the basement of building 6. Gimme a buZ when ya get here but no rush as I've got the studio booked til 4,Kool xx,   "There's the real rough as guts mixes I've done so far. Great chips today!,Chops,Also chips,Do it. Flesh  and blood and it was the way or whatever those tracks are actually called are standing out to me at the moment,With a bit of tweaking I reckon the others will fall in line as well, but the intimate feel and dynamic of those two are pretty juicy,Think the other two are looking  for a double tracked vocal or overdub of some kind,Will do  <name> poo,   some synth overdubs, can get rid of em if you dont think they fit. Now I'm just getting tweaky.,so much fun! trying to see what overdubs might fit with other tracks,trying to go for a stripped back, subtle feel. Which is new territory for me,lol,yeah I think even some guitar parts doubled would be good, or capoed an octave up. What days are you free usually?,cool beans, I usually have class monday unfortunately, but tuesdays and the weekend I can usually do, as long as <Name> is happy with sitting in of course :),   overdubs, now I gotta just mix it for school and stop being obsessive!,Thanks <name>! I'll get em all mixed and ready and then we can do some vocal harmonies and stuff at my place next week if ya like.,That should be fine! We're hanging round all day so anytime should be fine really,Sounds good!,Get a bandcamp! Sure you can sort out some EP artwork!,Might be able to do Wednesday morning? I got class at 1:30. Otherwise weekend if ya can do it?,yeah cool, I can probably do that, will smash through some overdubs and show ya where I'm at. The 55 leaves from right near my place so ya probably got til like 1,see ya then buddy, will get some coffee for ya lawl,afjlflflfalf,you like cawfeee,   this is where I'm at. Sounding pretty darn good actually,No probbo you yobbo. Keep on being fantastic and I'll keep on documenting it.,Maybe I could play an acoustic set for the EP launch?,Wooyeah,Yah yah. Almost done methinks,Thanks <name>, will see you soon bud. Xx,Yep. Mines <number> and <name> is 0459028766. The only two numbers you'll ever need mate.,Hey <name>, how are things? Just wonderingif you've heard any whispers about the next recruiting round at SRC? <Name>'s partner is looking for call center work.,Ooh yeah will pass it on! Thanks <name>. We shoudl have dinner soonish I reckon or at least a drinky. Let me know when you're free and we can meet up solo or with lucy and <Name>. xx,brutal,sounds like punkmetalglamrockindustrialdisco,pretty good man, how you doing?,cool man, ambience is always good, have I showed you some of my new stuff?,   "the peasant and the noble,   is another,Hey bud! So if we go halves on shipping it'll be like 49usd each I think. How ya wanna do it? You can send me some cash and I can put in the order and I can meet you somewhere and give you the part or vice versa. Or I can repost it to you when I get it, depends where you are.,Hey no worries bud glad I might be able to help. I'm in Pascoe Vale South so not too far from you at all. I don't drive so if ya wanna come by and grab it when it shows up then go ahead. Or I'm at RMIT during the week. PS I have electric factory in Preston having a look around their spares department for some HDM10s which might be easier/cheaper in the long run so if there's no rush on your end I might wait to chase down that lead before ord<Name>g online.,Hey I reckon I'm gunna grab a HDM10 on ebay with the 20 percent off sale. DO you want me to get one for ya and split shipping? Pretty much free shipping with the sale anyway.,Oh the discount only applies if its over a certain amount, so I'll grab one for you and then you can send me the cash if that's alright?,Yeah! I tried it and it works,SO should I get one for you too? You can send me the cash in the next couple of days if you want. Should be like 50bucks AUD,Order placed! I'll send you through my bank details and you can send me some cash? They are sposed to arrive on the 4th october so plenty of time,Here ya goAccount Name: Liam PowerBSB: 303 092Acc #: 5893348,PS Bought one of these, I think these will work in the MPC \   "No worries, I'll let ya know when the package shows. Can,Cool thanks! Hope it shows up soon. My compactflash drive is busted so can't save anything. Will keep ya posted,PS You're in Nun right? I've seen you guys play heaps of times. Definitely a massive influence! Sometimes analyze songs for production tips haha,Show with Automat at the Curtin last year was particularly great!,Keep up the good work bud! Hanging out for the new album \ude09,Thanks! Been trying to get off the ground with my sort of noisy minimal synth solo side project for a while now.  Sposed to be making a tape/playing more VLF shows this summer (hence MPC for live sequencing). Would be  interested in hearing some of your solo stuff too, let me know when ya upload it!,Haha wow thanks for the tips. That's what I was thinking of doing with it too! Transferring midi stuff from ableton then sampled drums/ms20 and midi keyboard for playing lead lines/chords. Can even run the ms20 through the inputs so don't really need a mixer in my case. Just a bunch of fx pedals and the 6 outs on the Mpc. Then using next sequence or track unmute for variation. Once I can save that is \ude2d,Yeah, best of both worlds! I got a beatstep pro for more immediate/xox type sequencing which I've been running to the MPC/MS20 trigg<Name>g sounds and its working pretty well actually. Pairs weirdly well with a midi step sequencer as a kind of hub for ideas. OS wise it totally looks like OS2XL is the most flexible (saving my pennies). Been trying it out and its super deep. Kind of need it for doing polyphonic sampling coz setting up chromatic synths on the free OS is a total PITA. So wait, do the LFOs automatically retrig in OS2xl?  Less time programming more time making tracks is always a plus. Yet somehow I find using the data wheel strangely satisfying?,Oh yeah they kind of keytrack. Weird. You can always but it as a bug on the MPC forums. Pretty sure that JJ guy is like insanely quick at fixing stuff. Frigging coding powerhouse.,   "Yeah they retrigger automatically, which doesn't make for a very convnicing pitch wobble,Woah just found out the MPC1000 has dc coupled outputs. Which means you can sequence modulation to analog synths!    "HDM10 showed up today! Let me know a good time to swing by and grab it. Address is <home>.,Yeah I know. I was surprised! No worries, let me know next week then.,Haha, still waiting on some parts from China so we'll see,Yeah should be fine. What time were you thinking?,I can maybe do a little later, like 7:30ish? Gotta put my kid to bed,Ooh yeah 7.45 then if you can do it. Should be well and truly aseep by then (hopefully),Hey I ended up putting a microSD card in my MPC and it's working great! So much quieter now.,Also loads faster I think,Gigging with it on Friday so will see how I go!,Yeah its more solid than my computer for sure. Plus can always just noodle synths while stuff is loading and noone can tell. Will do! Doing a performance art thing with a bunch of sounds from a hacked stethoscope so will see how it handles that,Nice! Will look into it. Cheers! How's music stuff going btw?,Oh shit yeah. Yeah my 1000 is running solid af! Yeah the pins were a little fragile I remember having to carefully jewellers screwdriver a couple back into place and swearing and arrythmia thinking I might break a pin. But now its in there I don't have to worry about it! Music is good, recorded an EP over the holidays and just in the sort of final mixing stages and stuff now and sourcing cassettes and junk. Been trying to live track stuff a bit more and be more minimal so I write faster though haha. Let me know when you've got some more stuff would love to hear it!,Yeah good day to stay the hell inside! I'm the same. Realised recording this summer that I just add tracks a lot of the time instead of arranging the tracks that are already there. Makes mixing an insanely masochistic process too when you have like 3 tracks for each part essentially playing the same hook or something and you are juggling fx chains like a madman.,Hey I might grab that volca keys off ya! Gettin paid on wednesday so can come by after then?,Nice! I'll let you know when I'm thinking of popping round. Hows it going? Saw <Name> last night and she was pretty excited about that gig on the 6th,Oh yeah I heard about that. You're jumping ship?,Yeah fair call! I'm sure melbourne will be sad to lose ya. Yeah rent is off the charts here til the bubble bursts. And buying a house is not an option for most people in melbourne thats for sure! You gunna do some solo shows and stuff once you're set up there?,Oh man those weird 90s rompler things are either really good or terribly bad. I got a mc505 which just sits on a shelf in perpetuity. Should sell it or circuit bend it but it's such a bastard to disassemble. Like 18 long screws on the bottom or something,PS would love to hear some stuff if ya get any online,Hey bud, I'm not sure whether I'll be able to make it round to pick up the volca on friday coz I'm invigilating at a gallery in the city all day. You free next week anytime?,cool, how bout thursday then?,I think I'm set for floor stands at the moment, thanks for offer though! I'm sure someone on MGN will get more use out of it than I would.,Last thing i need is an excuse to buy more synths haha,Hi  <name>, thanks so much for your message. Its a pretty fucking awful time, its really unfair but at the very least we got to spend some quality time in his last days. I'll let <Name>and Mum know.,Hey <name>, this is Liam from <name>, just wonderingif you might be interested in playing a gig with InfraGhosts and my solo stuff at Bar Open May 11th? All pretty trashy electronic vibes, and I thought of ya.Let me know if you're into it.Cheers,Nurries mate, here's me and InfraGhosts if ya want to check us out. Lemme know if yer free.InfraGhosts:       "Did ya find out if you're free May 11? Venue owners hot breath down my neck.,Hey hey no stress, smack bang in the middle of May's assessment stress for pretty much everyone including myself so wouldn't want to add to that. We ended up filling the spot, but will definitely hit ya up next time if schedules sync up.,Hey bud, <name> from the Catfish said I should contact you about perhaps playing a gig together, I play dark, electronic synth type stuff. Here is a link to some tunes:    Lemme know if you might be innerested. CheersLiam,PS love your stuff, them square wave basslines.,Gotta have a reputation for good customer service.,Hey bud, I'm super interested in the Mpc1000 you posted just waiting til payday to pull the trigger. I can let you know in a couple of days what's going on with that. Definitely want to buy though.,Yeah no worries just have to wait til payday (Thursday). I'm in Pascoe Vale South so can drop by anytime really. I think I'm going to buy it as is and then see what I can repair myself I think. Will replace the pads at a later date if need be but got an external keyboard for sequencing etc I can use for now. Is that alright?,Yeah go for it.,Awesome, thanks heaps. Will keep ya posted.,Alright cool, money is locked in. Reckon I can come by friday to pick it up?,Cool works perfect for me. I got uni til 12:30 but can swing by round 1-1:30ish? Whereabouts in Brunwick West are ya?,Cool, Its right near my place so I'll come by around 1ish then. My number is 0413 908 067. Can message ya on here when I'm close by. See ya then!,Heyo, I'll be passing by your way tomorrow afternoon around 4ish. If you're round maybe I could swing by and pick up the MPC?,Cool, yeah was been looking into replacing them as well. Might as well replace most of the little bastards while I'm in there I guess! All good to do some fixin'. Are the pads completely screwed or just require some finesse/couple of presses to get working do ya reckon?,Yeah apparently the MPC1000 pads were pretty crummy. Been researching like a MF and I reckon I can fix em/clean em up or something to improve that. One last question sorry! So the CF card reader is gone, does that mean there's just a hole in the front haha? And it just has the internal memory, like 128mb, or can I jam a HDD in there?,That's cool. Who is using CF anymore anyway? Pretty sure it costs less for a hard drive. So Its got the slot for a hard drive still in it?,Cool, that's fine then. I got a bit of experience fixing shit like this so NBD if parts are a bit stuffed as long as the like motherboard and junk are all working. I'll pop by tomoorrow then! Cheers,Heyo on my way from the city. Probably be a half an hour if that's alright?,Nice, see ya then,yeah, I'm working hard at getting a job right now dude, so not too sure. But that sucks it looked like you guys were getting along fine, meh. Such is life.,cool beans, hopefuly saturday cause I got some party of friday anyways. ADios Muchacho,Party! Friday?I got another party, but ill try to rock up at some point. What time does that shit start homes?,Oh cool, well ill seeya then muchacho,SO wait, friday or saturday?,Glenn Branca \u2013 The Ascension\   to New York Noise Albums\   Image Limited Metal Box Album\   Harvey \u2013 Rid of Me\   to many NO WAVE releases\   of Romance\   "Spent the whole night up til now making a fucking stevie wonder type funk song, so tasty fucing jazz organ yeah baby. Ok 80 bucks sounds good, ill hook you up later this week. I dont think she was pisse doff she was just a bit annoyed.,Um.. Ill see how I am doing by friday assignment and health wise, pretty much stressed and dying from some chest infection - not ideal creative conditions. I'd like to come see my Disco though, if you buy me one ill pay you whenever, or ill give you the cash friday if I see you.,BED! when the hell is molly's party anyway? I thought it was this saturday? is it? So confused! what are you going as?,Sounds good as long as I stop coughing by then, and have done sufficient study. If not ll just hang out Saturday, make that my reward day or whatever.  Pretty sure I have some sort of chest infection that prevents fun though but ill definitely rug up and coem see my disco even if I dont drink or anything.  By the way, first jug is on me? (I know those statements are contradictory, will decide on the night.)Kind regardsLiam Power,Oh well have a ton of fun for me.  I am studying, so say hi to that gang for me.  I'll see you tomorrow morning for camberwell market?,Okie doke hottie pants. Love you. Il giveyou a call at some point,Sweet, Lets do somethin',FUCK SMELL ASS SMELL LICKER!,Denim (Denholm). To achieve a high level of authentic individuality this garment has undergone destruction and aging (Forced premature maturation).  Due to these processes areas of the garment may wear more quickly (The imagination, simplicity). There will be a natural colour loss with every wash (The life cycle baby, the wheel).  To reduce colour loss wash and dry garment inside out and away from direct sunlight (Antisocial). Care must be taken to avoid colour rub/upholstery (we're only making it worse).I told  <name> that I thought I was in love with her; but covered my ass by saying I didn't know what love is and didn't want to identify it with an absolute cause that would make it cliche and would also ruin it by making it less unique and beautiful. She seemed to swallow it. We held hands today, and we nearly kissed, I swear! Ah, how can I explain except for in physical terms! But yes, pretty sure me and her are either going steady, or  not going at all. She is so goddamn ambiguous. So am I though, and I don't know what I want from her, maybe a symbol? A muse? Self gratification? Hell I dunno, all I know is she has this look man.. this look that makes me want to die and fuck at the same time, and I dig it more than I dig breath. Hows shit up in colac? You make another long mac and you are officially pretentious. Love and kissesLiamxoxox,   "Okay Buddy pal, I am proud of your vigilance.,I would but I'm so INFURIATED I can barely WALK let alone come to carlton. But how does your tuesday night sound? WE SHALL REVOLT.,I don't got no laptop Hombrey,Hey bruv, change o plan. Duno if I'll be able to bring the bass amp down cause I gotta work tomorrow and I am coming down thursday afternoon with  <name> and  <name>. So any bass arrangements can be made through the Public Address system if needed. Might be able to bring a guitar, mic, pedals and few leads down on the train with me though if needed. Anything else brung? If so contactico. AND ILL SEE YOU THERE HOMBRE FOR BEANS AND GOON AND BEANS AND BEERS AND GOON AND MUSAK AND JAMMING AND STARS AND FRESH AIR AND BEAUTIFUL MUSIC AND TENTS AND SWIMMING IN THE COOL FRESH SEA AND SUNTANS AND RICK <Name> AND PURE UNENCUMBERED NATURAL BEAUTY ENVELOPING OUR EYEBALLS IN LUBRICATED GLORY.,Just crunching it and shit. What tiem you going back wednesday?,good idea to me, I was just thinkin o you, found some fuckin hefty speakers in hard rubbish, remind me of no brand jensens.,DENHOLM,I got class,i got a tute til 3 tomorrow, but after that I'm free n easy,til 2 actually,tuesday I got a tutorial til 3 30, then  <name> is leaving for queensland so I gotta see her off or something,wednesday and thrusday are good,HOWS UR SCHED?,free as a birdy after non on wednesday,noon,alrightyden,make sweet music like theres no tomorrow,oneluv,babyloin,you seen the pictures of him, he looks like a bible bashing calvin klein model,probably hid the gun in his chin,Q: Can you describe your strengths and flaws as an individualA: I'm an extremely patient and a very positively minded individual. I have obviously changed my ways over the years and am now driven by idealistic goals and work for the interests of my countrymen and all Europeans. Most people would not acknowledge the work yet (nor are they likely to appreciate it during my lifetime) but this is an irrelevant fact for me. With time they will understand what is going on around them and that what we are trying to accomplish will benefit not only them, but most importantly their children and grandchildren.,fascista,yeah,its part of documents detailing his plan,oh yeah,these goddamn far right groups have absolutely no moral code,its fucked up to be so nationalistic in goddamn europe,they already saw the ramifications of that shit so many times over,I find it slightly ironic though, that the right wing media immediately reacted by pointing to islamist fundamentalists and afphanistan, terrorists and whatnot, and then the killer was pretty much the exact opposite of what they specualted,*speclated,the media is looking pretty bad though at the moment,pretty fucking ironic,i mean, its sad, if she had the right song she would have been an alright singer,but it was kinda epected,stating at birth,*starting,Hey, did some work on those jam tracks in my spare time, got a few of them up if you dig\   "reverb adds space and character to any sound. Its the tuxedo of signal processing.,Tom drum good, snare go CA!,Hey there Prickenstein. Whats slamming down there in Berlin town? Are you keeping away from pickpockets and con men? Don't play craps in the street. Hows the musak over there? Neubatenish? Oettinger is apparently like 70 cents a can.,Hey Broman, man its been crazy I been on Grattan Street all week.. at the Royal Melbourne... in a hospital bed... with a morphine drip... dunno if you heard but I fell off the railway bridge into merri creek. 6 broken ribs and a lacerated skull. OUCH! But I'm out now and facebooking my way around the world. Hows europa? last I heard you were in Prague, met that <Name> chick with the weird hiccups, shes cool, reads fante at least, but seemed  a bit self righteous, but maybe its the Endone talking. See ya soon MAAATELoveLiam,Hey asshole, hows it bangin?,uh oh,sheez,I'll light a candle for ya,your heartbeat might slow down too much,One day at a time muchacho,but by the time you get back I'll be wholly recuperated from my life threatening experience, therefore absolving you from any chances to sympathize with your friend-in-peril,which will be even more relaxing,but I'm fine, nothing a good solid month of drinking can't erase,oh darling, I can't wait,I'm nothing without you,fuck my ass and call me denholm,sounds like you've been having an enlightening zorba the greek style experience, we've heard little snatches of europe-<Name>float over the pacific,nobody sings with me anymore,except for  <name>, and his voice is wierdly bassy,fucking tremolo has to be my favourite signal processing effect after reverb and delay,and distortion,well if you're gettin homesick you can always look up that bandcamp website thing, I put all the shit up there,I miss your scent,WHOOPS!,I DIDNT SAY THAT,   "Idunno if thatll work,   "probably sounds worse compared to all the avant guarde european shit you've been listening to,later brew, seeya next year,time permitting,have you changed your name to Untitled(D) yet?,   "They wouldnt let you on would they,you're stuck in customs with a pund of horse in your keister,Ah they dont know what they're talking about, I mean, customs people spend half their day rooting around in peoples asses in windowless rooms,thats pretty much the definition of a fag,alright, no probbo you yobbo, I might be able to come to your party, but I have on equestion, is Sarah going to be there?,I just wanna know whether to blind and deafen myself before the party,I'll just spray myself with aeroguard, thaat should keep her from sucking my blood,rub some garlic on my balls,all good,I'll be like a human souvlaki,how you doin anyway, gettin homesick?,by the way, do you want us to come pick you up?,what time you gettin in?,what time matey?,yeah, I was thinking you'd be jetlagged, I'll get you a double espresso irish coffee,I'll be in the city on firday anyway, got myself a job interview,well I dunno, if ya got any simoleons left,we should drink it to celebrate,that you are once again tethered to this shitty town, while your spirit flies free above all continents,Ohh I heard that goes good with red bull and raspberry cordial!,alright babyman, well gimme a call when ya get back, I'll come round at some point,and watch you sleep,just like old times!,cya baby,safe flying,hopefully sarah's plane crashed !!!,lol jk,nam flashbacks,of quietly seething rage and carefully ripped tights,see ya friday brosaman,New track, should jam this out this week,Yeah, just mixing them up now,sound pretty good if you put them in a limestone cavern with about 12ms of delay,play a gig down the drains,Cool bananas,they are pretty shit quality, I fucking hate computers,sounds beautiful on tape,fuck it I'll just finish them, aint no polishing SHIT,be up in 2 minutes,yar har har har har har,mixed the shit out of it,first one is up now if ya wanna have a listen,   "fuck yeah sounds good baby man,fuckin get your ass to studyin,I been writing songs all day, feel like art garfunkel or something,yar yar,well, we got time, try and get two jams in this week,and then one next week,we should be ready by then,cruncho,oh well,headlining?,har har,sick man is pretty good anyway, I dont really care what we are called,sick men would be more appropriate though,hell, could be worse,could be called the massivists,or the phat chicks,har har,har,har,harhar,so howd you go last night? jamie end up coming home? hey hey,yeah she stayed at guses place, leaving me with nowhere to sleep,except for <Name>s,har,har,har,marriage of necessity,yup, necessity and convenience are stronger than love or passion,oh so she isnt home yet?,OOOOHHH,fuck, those girls are having an effect on me, I'm getting all fucking gossipy and shit,round 2,har har,everything.. so... juicy...,yeah, like murder,and war,and greed,HAR HAR,and overly sexed fixie riding 6 foot girls with an oral fixation, an iphone and a lotta insecurities,har har, GOSSIP IS FUN!,alruighty, see ya tomorrow cunt, make sure to come round early so we can cram the most into one day,alright jelly roll,later hater,shoot a waiter,you are the spongy crumbs inside of my jelly roll,hey ya butthole, is it alright if I come over and get my guitar and shit at some point, I lost my phone and thus have no way of getting in contact with anybody in this age of mobile communication?,naw, tomorrow, what time you got uni?,I guess I could come over and get it during that day if <Name> or   <name> or someone was there, unless you wanna get a couple of cheap bottles of wine or something tomorrow night.,those dudes are fucking retarded,nicey doo, should give it to   <name> to plug his bass into,use that amp I left at yourse,I was gunna give it to   <name> to use for bass,ya just chuck the speaker leads in the back, its a fucking cinch,got a good amlount of bass wattage,just use a screwdriver, and dont hook it up while its on,got 12v going through it or something,which is still a mean little cuntage,yeah I might stop round tomorrow night, if just for the after 6 metcard,come join the undeducated fucks like us,Idrunk away my education,I can't tell who is saying what, fucking duoouble profile picture shit,LAPPAS,SICKNESS,CHAOS REIGNS,Now we just gotta hook up the vhs camera somehow,why am I talking to you on facebook? are you in your room?,FUCKIN INSAIN,I think my guitar case is downstairs, and that pa speaker. Can ya hold onto them?,Hard baby, in Hanoi freezing our tits off,So good though, had four pints last night for like 2 bucks.,Hell yes, that'd be sick sticks. I imagine grattan street would be like trying to divide up the estate of a man whore with 300 bastard children. By the way pretty sure I owe like 200 bucks in bills to you which I'll give ya when I get back.,Do it! Saw the viet version of you the other night selling hash on the street, you should buy a postie bike and ride around yelling ganja, ganja,Hey buddy boy I'm back in town but outta credit. You got uni today? I got class 2-4 wanna have coffee before/after?,Cool man getting paid monday so ill chuck it in then, should be in there by tuesday. See ya round bud.,Yeeeeeeh been doin a lot of synth shit lately. Got my new guitar amp and it's sweet as candy. If ye free anytime pop round and I'll set up the drumkit for ya.,   is how the synth sounds. I feel like I stepped into a viscous pool of blood and flesh from 1986.,tahst just the beginning, thin I'm gunna get a flock of seagulls cut and start walking around in white suits with a piano key necktie,ah no worries might have to get it done another day.,holy fuck. Downloaded some image stabilization plugin for that first pan. Works perfectly. I feel so guilty.,   is a really rough thing I did with the stroke scene. It could probably use more but this is kinda what I wanted to do with it. Maybe we could reshoot this on saturday if we have time?,   "doesnt make me feel too bad about being slightly incomprehensible,yeah I was thinking that. Cunna splice in some handycam footage once I get my capture card as that first shot runs a bit long with slo mo,Dissolves too cheesy?,yeah. Thats what I'm hoping to do with the handycam footage,shit yeah. I edited together the first scene. Which has a few more kinks. But I'll throw it up tonight I think,ha ha,starting off your series of mundane domestic duty pics?,well I guess if the you couldn't get them to stop playing you'd have to watch them,sounds cool,see how we go,yeah ill come with ya and get em. then we can shoot on saturday the vomit scene and the exteriors, assuming that it doesnt rain or something,might reshoot the stroke scene but ill see what happens,ill let  <name> know,CES'T MAL DACOIS,isolated showers,and if we shoot at dusk then we'll be fine I think,the exteriors can be shot in a couple of minutes as well, nothing too complex,yeah it sno big deal, and I wanted to shoot the tape player playing as well to make it more clear that a tape is playing.,which should take about 2 seconds, but I probably need to use your end table for continuity,everything else is at my place, the bathroom and front yard scenes,think we need a change of location for act 2 as in, he moves into a new place. an empty white room with a matress and a few clocks kinda thing, <name> had a good idea as in go to a real estate agents and pick up the keys for some empty place and shoot in there for a couple of hours,but we'd have to lug everything round,   a rough edit of the first scene. Just stringng shots together. Ignore the shitty framerate on the pan, think that mighta been something to do with the stabilisation plugin,Fuck yeah I am cutting in handycam footage as we speak.  So grainy and horrible. Makes the digital footage look even better har har., <name> is showing up at like 4 so no big rush.,   1... no.1...,footage turned out pretty good,More dialogue. More suit wearing and less bodily functions. Going to introduce new characters. Hopefully  <name> does not get embarrassed,Hey matey, whatcha up to tonight??,Became sick as fuck in the last 24 hrs so gunna spade some codeine onto my gob and eat ice cream probs,Yess and yes. How's uni gahn?,Pretty much done. Just got some pansy online critical reflection to complete then I'm free n easy.,They're so pansy ass. Just wait til you get the third year efficiency. Makes life a lot easier.,Efficiency equals what you can get away with not doings,Yehhhh 3rd year is when it gets good. Fucking irony.,Naw I got a couple of straggler units to finish up.,Don't have to worry til next yr,But I dunno, seems like sound would be perfect.,Oh yeah I dunno, have to look into that. Better get back to it. Lemme know what your doin tonight.,Cool breams,got WERk matey, get off round 9. whatchaupta?,yah cool, have a beer or two,hey i might get compensation,or ya know.. my next of kin might,ya finished with uni?,ffaaaarrrrrkkkk,yes,schwet, whens that on?,so much prestige,iI hope it doesnt go to your head,well at least they are safe from any meedlling hands,meddling?,melding,nice one, ill give ya a buzz later when im off work,malading,shuntyeah, gunna bring some of my shit over tomorrow i think. but saturday for sho,I'm back mother.fucka! Gunna have an Xmas thing with the dam but was lgunna ask what yr up to tomorrow?,Charlotte? Anyway no bigs I got pretty much all next week free so we can work out something.,Oooooooooooohhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh,Cool beans. I wanted to come round and get some shit thoughs so let me know when it's back in your pants and ill yak at ya tomoz.,Shitters! I got a couple of records, saw pretty much the most beautiful landscapes and majestic scenes of my short life, camped in the rainforest and slammed tunes. Took heaps of snaps that literally look like friggin desktop wallpapers.,New Zealand is just like a slightly better Australia.,Records and beer are cheaper too. Got Pete ubu terminal tower for 20 bucks.,Yeah, there isn't many, but the ones they have are huge and have a great range. Easily coulda spent 500 bucks on shit. They had barely any new shit but I think record culture hasn't caught on as much over there.auckland was great for that shit but I think Wellington would e better ad auckland is like Sydney and Wellington is like Melbourne.,Alright, talk to ya ma\u00f1ana,Freshola,should do some more dancey kinda shit,lead singer is such a BEB,not to bad, hows uni doin?,oh yeah, i was pretty loaded down, I think i also left my only decent guitar lead, <name> might accidentally have it,or <Name>,good call,im free saturday,electronic music is different, its lamost better if your hungover,sunday then?,alrighty, ill see whats happenin on the weekend,should get a headphone splitter,haha,wecan all sit on the floor,haha, thatd be cool, we need a headphone amp, then we can flick switches and listen in on individuals and then go back to the main mix, which would be cool, cause we could be like (need more bass drum denny) or (what the fuck don),this loop pedal is the best thing since sliced bread,so handy for drums,loop pedal + sampler + synth = unlimited musical possibilities at the touch of a button,at the cutting edge of music technology,aggregating synergy from years of experience in the music industry,ill bring them all over on saturday,i almost filled up the damn thing already,yeah, that thing is pretty dehecent,yeah i just needa get a sdhc card, then i got 8 hours motherlicker,i think the highest it can get is 32gb,which is way too much,unless i wanted to record and half hour loop,sixty times,wheres a good place to get em cheap, ebay?,cool beans, i though you mighta had aline bein the camera toting bastard you are,well its te same as posting a letter,cool, letcha know how i go,good luck with unes,lateroes,hahaha,great,fuck yeah ill listnen now,cool, i dont even remeber that,thought all that synth stuff was a write off at the time, specially as we was all tuckered out,any other sick jams on there ready to uplood,laid back synth shit,good callz,if I set up my loop pedal and shit we can ulti layer that shit,haha,its all twin peaksy,thats my favourite synth patch,its so freaking 80s candlelit dinner,in a factory,and all of us all blackfaced,with dirt,andtear streaks,and a table laid out with pork and hams,and delicious meats,and us gorging ourselves,and you guys would suddenly love meats,then we would have a meat fight,and throw meat at each other,throw some freakin tofu,soe soft beancurd,wouldnt even do any damge,a whole ham on the bone would pulverise a carrot to shit,DERRR,unless it was one of those week old bendy carrots,then nothing could stop you,that shit would just bend til the ned of the world,even if you dropped a huge anvil on it,flexible so it has ore slap,later kiddo, ya can just upload em and make em public later on soundcloud noob mistake NO 11,later hater,That triangle seems suspiciously like a pyramid...Liam PowerBSB: 733047Acc: 712978,Yeah baby, ill talk to <Name>about it tonight. So fucking cool. Second of many. I got work on Saturday though..... We might have to do low volume shit cause I'm werkin til 4:30,Nah just go thru our set, wanted to try out a different order maybe.,Cool man, yeah looks a little sparse, I'll smash some text out for ya if ya admin me.,Yeah let's try and get everyone.,I'm coming round to your place soon anyway, talk then.,looks good man!,that looks versatile as shit,ps should hear the mixes im doing of these tracks, so BRUTAL,Good call.  Gunna wait n put em on tape at some point. Need mast<Name>g,Fuck yeah get it! (When you have money),Cool, I'll see how I go. Ttyl,aww yeah youve played this to me,cool, ill have a listen tomorrow,on the way to the grave music mor elike,alrighty, i wont book in three phase then,plus still might be sick so i dunno how well thatll work,yeah, the idea has been conceieved and now will have time to gestate,and will at one point burst out of our asses screaming and covered in blood,she doesnt even have one,derr, that kid of hers dying was just a thinly veiled coverup of her true identity,she is THE ALIEN QUEEN,i meant in that movie aliens, not in real life, i dunno if her kid died in real life,that would e fucked though,koolzoes,talk to ya later BRAH,sleeep,ben frost youtue comments saxjazzman1411 hours ago remindsme of the x files for some reason,Hey yeah was thinkin bout popping round tonight but <Name>seems less keen and still A bit sick,,Cool, maybe I'll just come have a brew laters.,Yeah, I'll let ah know how I go. Get some coffee and meds into me and leave da house at some point.,Yeah baby sticks around like a fucking unwanted unwanted houseguest,Eating my nutrients and fucking with my life and routines,Buses LCO <Name> article later,I'll see how I feel and I'll give you a call later,Shit nah I forgot, been a bit of a shitty week.,Cool man. I'll give ya a bell.,,Nah that's cool pretty fucked after work gunna go home and eat bacon.,Got Monday free though??,Cool well I gotta get home tonight and cook some dins for <Name>. But Monday is good for me so just gimme a ring. Also got some drone synth stuff onbtape that might work. I'll bring over some audio files at some point and ya can see for yaself,hey man yeah, <Name>s got her exams this week/im workin earlier in the week. But you can come round thursday druing the day if ya want.,Sure thing man, food be good. <Name>'s dairy/gluten free atm, gimme a call Thursday morning and I'll let ya know the score.,Yeah, <Name> will be round providing food for <Name> durrrr,<Name>is also welcome.,Hell yes! Sounds great man. That's <Name>'s abortive type of salad cause it's not really a salad.,Favourite,Ya gotta sneak the healthy in.,hey did you bruvs get around to tracking drums for lash?,Dats cool. By the way I got the week off coz <Name>'s up in Canberra from the 13th to te 18th. We should do something!,Nah, jam + beers - <Name>,<Name>'s taking him up to the bra so I got the house to myself,Yup so I'll be wanting a beer or two to distract me from my nascent longing.,Cool beans. Not sure if she brought it but will find out  thanks dudeson.,cool breans, im free from this thursday to next thursday, so we can always try another day,Sounds gooood, got shit on tomorrow nite, but will give ya a buzz on the weekend,yeah, she can use it for suresies. The reverb feeds back though so she cant use that,I know, psyched to play a show again finally. We'll slam out the setlist a couple of times thursday and we'll be in fighting form for saturday night,yeah, if its not too much trouble for him to bring the moog,pretty sure it wont be a prob, <Name>is using Mai's amp?,yeah, could just get to the pa with it,I was thinking MembraneFetterPuffing BillyPurgeMountainJailAnyoneLash,or AnyoneFetterPuffing BillyPurgeMountainJailMembraneLash,Yeah, anyones a good warm up,We should do purge though,gotta run, seeya thurs,,Whups yeahor AnyoneFetterPuffing BillyPurgeMountainJailMembraneLash,or AnyoneFetterTreasonPuffing BillyPurgeMountainJailMembraneLash,If we have time,Hey denzo, do ya have any vid editing experience? Trying to do a video for solo project, but I gots no proper software,Oooh actually getting  <name> to help out so all good. Hey so we're getting removalists for friday so if ya wanna come over and help out with boxes and little stuff that'd still be awesome. like 1030-11isn friday?,Sick tots,ey denzoman, hows it going? I wanna get a herb garden started in the next few weeks, seems like this weather would be a good time to plant etc. Just wanna get a few herbs started and have a pretty good idea where they will go in the backyard, do ya reckon we could pop into bunnings or something next week and you could point me in the right direction as to what to buy? Potting mix, spades/trowels, seedings or seeds, wat<Name>g can etc?,WHA? No, where is it?,Wednesday! lets do it,Oh butts, me phoen is lost,HEY YA bringing your new kit tomorrow? Want to stand around it with beers and talk about the engine?,PS ya still on for a bit of a bunnings run tomorrow? me and <Name> can meet ya on sydney rds. for caff/A1 maybs,Sure maynnnn, I'm just chillin with <Name>,schweat,I just had an idea which would give you and electronic drum kit of sorts.You already have a monotribe which has three drum sounds in it, if we can figure out a way to trigger those from piezos then you would be able to smash it out! If you let me borrow your monotribe I can do it for ya.,righto, anyway, you got a proper drumkit now so doesnt really matter that much,yeah I saw that. Would be pretty cool, I'm seeing him at the NGV on friday night, so I'll see if I can get the night off.,<Name> said I'm totally fine to go tomorrow night, would e cool to see what he spins.,Dude ire Jon just leave it til you've moved unless ya think it'll be cathartic or summat? How's the house hunt going? Applying for many places?,Footscray is the shit,and its usually pretty cheap, like middle footscray,the problem is I don't think landlords are super cray about getting 4-5 peeps in a house unless they're international students and they can roust the fuck outta em,yeah, footscray proper is fucked, When we were looking there were a couple of places that are quite nice like, the opposite direction from footscray station, closer to the maribynong near FCAC. Significantly cheaper usually and like 5 minutes walk to the station,,so youve been doing brunswick west, coburg, brunswick, b.east? Anywhere else?,and footscray,well it has been a couple of years since you guys moved, like 20 months or something, rents have gone up, specially in the places you looking. Buncha entitled hep cats fresh off the boat with daddy's platinum card off<Name>g 100 bucks more a week rent for some shithole in Brunswick west so they can be "close to the action",coburg and thornbury are like premium real estate man, this aint 2008. You'd be lucky to get a place.,good luck with it though. I reckon youll find somewhere,If it was me, I'd just be going for every possible candidate, smashing cover letters and applying for everything. Having everyone going to inspections all the time. Like, if your application gets accepted for a place that you dont like, you can always say that you've taken on another property. Real Estate agents have shortlists for that very reason and its pretty common. I don't think they hold anything against you as long as you are courteous and communicative.,Worst comes to worst you get on a lease for a place you arent crazy about, and spend the year looking for a better place. Its only a year.,You'll get a place, you've still got time. You all got places to go if you dont get a place anyway right?,In other news, I built ya an electronic drum pad that can trigger samples, guna bring it to next rehearsal so ya can blast out some different snare hits.,do you have any spare practice pads I could put piezos on?,hellyes, well I've got the code working so it sends out midi, usb midi, and analog triggers, so can trigger ableton, drum machine, or hommade circuits (my fave) with pretty good velocity sensitivity. Would you prefer if we had pads that could attach to real drums, or if  ya had a sepearte thing you could play?,I'm down. I'll seeya tomorrow night. Good luck,Meh no biggles.,Yeah, Lets not do it. We needa write some new stuff, if I realgood gig comes along we should take it, but ideally the next gig we play should be mostly new material,Cool man, I wanted to do this improvisation thing for school so we should organise a time that's good after then.,Sheeit! We're pretty packed in with numbers as it is and we've had to tell people that they can't have plus ones at this stage coz of the venue capacity. I'll let ya know if someone can't make it but otherwise I don't think so \ude41,Haha, the only reason they sound good is you guys are playing well. Loving the drums man! Sorry about the wedding,Naw well do something later in the week. I got Wednesday free but we'll work something out. Not super fussed coz we got a life done last week,Yah man, ya can transfer or just gimme some cash next time I see ya? Also will grab some tapes coz a few people wanted to buy some. We can just split em three ways if poss.,Hey man, no stressies! Let's hang next weekend then.,Cool beans,   snowy red, his first album is all really raw and minimal like this. So goood,haha will do, any paricular tracks,?,Dang. I'm still up in Canberra but I'll be around the city on Wednesday and Thursday pretty much all day?,Woah nice one. Didn't know that. Ya got some wheels? Let's catch up next week. I'll be in the city on Monday and Thursday if you're round or else weekends are pretty good,Fuck yeah. Let me know what your doing. I got class til 12.30 but free after,Ey budolo. You free later today?,Heyo no worries brahmon, I'm in on Thursday but <Name>'s working Friday I think so hanging at home/ possibly in Coburg with <Name>,Come round if ya got time. I reckon well be home on Friday!,Oh Woops. Thursday I'm at uni, Friday I'm home with Fran so either way but gotta meet in the city on Thursday,That's what happens when you send a message at 8. 30,Yeah cool man see ya then!,Seriously though wtf thanks for the Monotron man gunna complete my live setup! Will credit you on next ep,Executive producer,Haha also good hangs today. See ya round,Hey bud how ya travelling, great times the other night. Here's that track I made for ya. Monotribe is doing all the reverb backbeat drums and lead synth. This is all live jams too,   "Was totally inspired by Egypt Egypt that you showed me,Also    "You catch more flies with honey,Man can't wait to see what you do with that Kiln setup what a pro,Haha just fucking round but monotribe kicks ass,Haha yeah I had a good time but was like, I dont think I can party every weekend anymore even if I wanted to lol. Nah Egyptian lover rules,that sounds boss. Would suggest my place, then dont need to get a sitter!,cool elts figure out something in the next few weekolos,maybe could make eggplant moussaka or summat,haha I'll l00k up some recipes,SAGANAKI BABY,Hey baby, do you still have that PA that we used to sue for rehearsals? NEdd it for this gig I be playing on the 20th,Oh wait its yours isnt it. Reckon I could borrow it for a night?,Yeah I know! How ya been? Maybe Ill pop round on the weekend to grab it sometime?,Cool maybe Monday actually haha I'll cadge a lift from <Name>,Man that sounds really good. I'll shift some stuff around,maybe I can jsut uber the PA back to my place actually and bus it over to yours,PS I fleshed out that jam we did ages ago with savnobs. Have a listen if you want.\   "sicktits,Whoah turns out I have a work due on wednesday that i need to mix in surround and monday is the only day I can go into the studio. Might have to make it the week after next to come round to yours man. Sorry :(,yeah bb,Hey bud do you know many watts your PA is?,Kool thanks bud. Trying to sort out power and shit coz this joint is gunna be demolished and we're talking to the neighbors,I think I invited you. Meta happening. We're taking over this house in Reso and having a kind of performance art night on Friday. Painting walls and ripping up carpet and jazz. I'm doing a experimental noise gig in the front room methinks,Yah maybe Monday if you are free?,   "Okay cool I'll let ya know what I'm doing but will Probs rock by in the morning,Woo-hoo,Yeah it'd guns be a goodun,It's,Bring guns,I'm gunna smash some body sound performances,A four hour long cover of heartbeat basically,Assisted suicide before show,Amoeba boy,That sounds ace,Do it,Domestic bliss,Hey bud probably get to yours at like 1? Gotta do some housework first,Cooloes will let ya know how I'm travelling,On my way over now,Probs be there at like quarter past,Yo what's your address again,Good to see ya last night man. Forgot all the many plans we made last nigh haht but if you're free I'll be sitting <place> next friday and the friday after. Or maybe I can come over your way and we can go to savers and get some ethiopian food or something. I got a hank<Name>g for injera.,Haha yes,I forgot about that,Hey man, I'm interested in the Sample for sure. Do you have a power supply for it?,Hey maddy! How ya doing? long time no see. Was talking to  <name> the other night about this tape release me and my band <name> are doing in September. He said to get in contact with you about maybe plugging something on PBS ? No big deal if it don't work out. Lemme know if you are interested.,Cool beananza! Here is the link to the EP. Probably going to do a tape launch round the end of september some time,    "Hey Maddy, how was your trip?? Heard  <name> is off traipsing round Aus getting flybitten, wonder whether he will ever return? So <name> have released our EP online and are getting some bands together for an EP launch, and would love to get on Homebrew for a chat at some point! Here's the link:\   "Perhaps he'll find a ghost town in rural aus which fits perfectly with his aesthetic and build a seed factory from locally sourced timber buttresses. We're free whenever, so no stress about timing.,Thanks matey@,Launching in a couple of weeks, still figuring out the details on the lineup. Reckon I should send it through to those guys? thats if they even have pigeonholes anymore? Digital pigeonholes. Pretty sure i recognise some of those shows. Damn hermit life. We were waiting round for tapes but they got lost in transit somewhere in between Canada and Aus. So we're doing a digital launch.,Hey yeah cool, we can do the 2nd of November at 3 for sure. (Everyone going crazy with uni stuff at the moment). Thanks so much for getting back to me!,Hey maddy, anything we needa know for monday? Should we bring a CD of the EP?,Awesome, will do. Me too matey! Got heaps on in november so should have plenty of fat to chew,PS what time ya want us there. <Name>is working til 3 so might not be able to be there til like 3:30ish. Me and <Name>can come in anytime.,Hey shakira, whats up? were you down for some form of babysitting this week at some point? Lemme know what time would be good for you. <Name> misses his Aunty!,Coolsoes. Wasn't urgent so no stressors. What day is good for you? Tuesday arvo maybe?,Hey man, was a super OK job. You gotta be available four days a week, or four shifts. One of them has to be on the weekend. Shifts are usually 4-5 hours from memory 4:30 to 8:30 but I used to do overtime and do 6 hour shifts on some surveys coz you can still call WA after 8:30. Weekend shifts were like 11-5? I was getting pretty good hours but it is dependent on the amount of work they have, I was doing 20-25 hours a week when I was working there but that was on a pretty intensive survey. If they only have short surveys you might only get 2-3 shifts a week but its all kinda based on a huge amount of variables such as performance/ amount of clients. They are usually pretty upfront with you all, the supervisors are awesome and all creatives usually, all the staff are hipsters in their 20s, and you get paid breaks!,Nurries mate,Oh yeah shit I forgot about that. Yeah Tuesday night is perfect man. <home> Pascoe vale south. Thanks for driving!,Cool bananas. See ya whenever ya can make it.,Yep,ya thinking about popping round?,Cool cool, no rush here,Got everything I need to start my sweatshop now,I reckon I could definitely have a look at it and see what's up. So just not putting out anything?,Probs pretty simple fix. Might be the <name> not making contact of something. Fifty sounds good, but probably need to take a look at it before I can say how much it'd cost. Ya got a case for it? I'm round RMIT petty much all week if ya wanna meet up there.,I got class 1:30-430 tomorrow and same Thursday so I'll be in at like 1 both days or can meet afters.,Cool slammers I'll message ya on thurs then,Cookies will message ya when I'm my way in,<number> matey,Hey bud fixed ya bass. Had a grounding problem! Pretty sure its sounding how it should, here's a test I did, let me know if it sounds alright to you.    "it goes high tone active-passive then low tone active-passive,kinda, its still there but its a bit quieter,but its outputting sound which is the main thing right? I can bring it in to school tomorrow if you're round?,was probably the same thing, it has shielding on the inside which was connecting two ground points and when I soldered one back on it worked with no buzz,hazzaah,alright, I'll be in round 1ish if ya dont mind hanging roudn for a bit?,also fifty bucks sound good?,no worries mate, lemme know if ya need anything else repaired eh?,Yeah I suck at that shit and have been playing guitar for years so different strokes,Just love inhaling toxic solder fumes mate,I'll bring a lead tomorrow so ya can test her out in immersive if ya want,Fark just trying to be professional,Getting <Name> to print out invoice,Probs,No hard feelings eh?How ya been?Good I hope.From your friend Liam.P.S I am sorry.,I have been doing none too much, figuring out my future I guess, and making music, writing etc.What are you planning on doing next year btw?,just sort of chilling at home with my friends etc.,Hey mary mary, would you or lach be able to come round for like an hour tomorrow night, <Name> gets home from work at 8:30 and i gotta leave at like 8 for soundcheck. NBD if ya can't,Might be a good idea actually, maybe 7/ 6:30 if thats alright?,Hey Mol it's <Name>, quick question. Is the girl that took your wedding photos Melbourne based? Need a wedding photographer!!!,Ah poo, I knew she was from somewhere not Canberra. Thanks!,Hey Mary, how ya doing? wonderingwhat you are up to tomorrow night? I know <Name> messages you about maybe watching <Name> for a bit. I'm helping out at the Sound Art fundraiser gig tomorrow which starts at 8 at the Tote so just trying to figure out times and stuff.,Hey, so what were you thinking price wise or for swaps for the s2000?,Hmm.. not too much for trades actually. Kind of said that and then realized I had sold a lot of stuff recently :(. Can do guitar pedal repairs and stuff. Got some homemade contact mics and piezo drum pads too. Can solder stuff for ya, or help out with electronics stuff if you're interested. Otherwise could part with some $$$ if you're into it.,Yeah looks like you can jam a floppy drive emulator in there and run disks off a USB?,Cool, alright. I'm selling a pedal RN to try and raise some cash. If its cool I might have to see if that one goes then can defs do 175 or something. Definitely interested though just tight as shit budget ATM,Who knows there might be a rush on fairly obsolete rack samplers,Oh yeah, I'm all over ableton and stuff like that for producing. Trying to do an all hardware live setup ATM, got plenty of analog voices  and a drum machine just needed something to add some variability, chopped up field recordings and vocal samples and junk.,Oh right, you meant there is editor software for the s2000.,haha,cool I'll look into it,I thought you were like "Computers can be used for sampling",Cool, thanks! Will let you know. Gunna do some research on it.,Hey man so lemme know if ya need any pedals repaired. Can usually do simple repairs overnight. My number is <number>. Tell yer friends.,Hey man have looked into this in the past. Totally doable , just a little weird to find parts for the ribbon. You can do it apparently with a guitar string and VHS tape. I'll try and figure out a design/do research and get back to yer.,Oh yeah sorry. Had a look into this and I think it's possible, what would you be using the controller for and what's your budget? I can make one that goes from 0-9v fairly easily with a guitar style plug. Also you can have different sizes there's membrane potentiometers which go from 10cm to 50cm but the bigger they get the more expensive they get. Think itll run around 100 bucks for parts and depending on how difficult it is to make/how many hours I'd charge like 100 bucks or something. I can probably make one with midi and cv out as well which would be more flexible. The design can be pretty simple if I use a membrane pot but they don't have in in Australia and would need to order one from America so that might take a few weeks. I had a look into the VHS tape/guitar string route as well which would be cheaper but would be at more risk of wearing out. Would you want the control voltage to be for pitch? Filter cutoff? And which synth would you use it for?,,Ok so v/hz is a little bit harder to do as most of the stuff I use is 1/v per oct but should still be possible. I reckon it'll be rigged up so that when you press it down it sends a gate signal and the control voltage would vary from 0-9v or whatever based on where you put your finger. If you wanted it to be perfectly in tune e.g middle c right in the middle or something it might be a bit harder with v/hz but we could figure something out.  That's what the pot looks like. They're just a strip of plastic and can take a bit of a beating I've heard.,That's cool. I was thinking I'll get one of the smaller membrane pots and make up a test circuit cause they're cheaper and we'll work from there? Just cause if have to test out to see if the circuit works for v/hz. I wanted to make one anyway so I'll make a smaller one and if it works for you I'll make the big permanent one?,Alright cool well I get paid next week so I'll order parts for the prototype then. The smaller membrane pots are about 10 bucks so I'll cover that. Probably get the parts end of next week and have a look at it on the weekend then get in contact with you to test it out on your synth.,Hey man ordered some parts for the prototype, coming from America so might take a little while to get here. I'll keep ya updated and do some designs and stuff in the next week.,Hey man, update on this: the parts for the ribbon arrived from America today and I'm gunna have a look and see if I can get the cv section working tonight/tomorrow. Will keep ya posted. Should be a bit cheaper than I thought to put together as well. Probably 150-200 bucks. Once I get a prototype working I'll let ya know and you can come pick it up/ I'll drop it off and we'll get it working with the ms20.,Ps. Gate section might take a little longer. Also the ribbons feel pretty good on their own, not too slippery.,By the way would you want a strap or it so you can wear it like a guitar? Thinking it can be battery powered so you could have guitar lead running cv and gate to it and strap it on?,Or would you want something that rested/velcroed to the top of the synth,Cool. I'll get a piece of wood from bunnings I reckon and chick it on that.,Cool. We'll I'll keep ya posted. Getting closer to reality.,,Working pretty well! I'll try and get it soldered up in the next couple of days and look for a solid non splintery piece of wood somewhere to back it.,,I've got one of these I was gunna spray paint and gloss, just a normal 1590 guitar pedal enclosure,With a bit of wood bolted to the bottom,So I dunno whether it'll need much tweaking actually. I'll get it soldered up and come round and plug it in and see what the response is like. I can also add a tuning knob on the side if ya wanna tune a specific part of it to a note.,Ribbon controllers are really interesting to play as well, really fluid and organic. totally making one for myself now. Lucky I bought two ribbons.,You first obviously.,Hey man I've finished off the ribbon controller. I got tomorrow off and can come round and test it, or is the weekend better?,Yeah cool man. Get in touch next week when ya got less on.,Hey no probs. working tomorrow and weds but got Thursday free if ya want me to come and drop her off.,Hey man sorry been a bit crazy getting ready for babes and whatnot. I got tomorrow free before 6 if ya wanna come pick her up.,79 Harding street in coburg. Ya can get the 1 up.,Hey so <Name> wants to go to that office works on Alexandra parade in a bit. You're still at council st right? I can bring it over then.,Aright cool, get yr synth out matey. Be there in like 15?,Oh geez. Well if ya need me to fix it lemme know.,Yeah no biggie I got the week off coz <Name> and te baby are up in Canberra, Friday arvo maybe? You can drop it off at my place if ya want.,Still got the schematics hanging round. What's up with it? Isn't passing cv?,That's cool, I'll be able to figure it out. Pretty simple design. If you're cool to bring it round I can probably get it done overnight. I'll add some strain relief for the cables as well!,Cool ill make sure I'm home. We're at 1/79 Harding st it coburg.,Lifetime warranty mate,Will take beer as payment,sure thing man, let me know if ya have trouble finding the place. Its a townhouse with a red door.,Hey brew, update on the ribbon controller. Looks like your mate had a good shot at fixing it, the wiring is all stuffed up and whatnot so might take a little longer than I anticipated to get it fixed, sorry bout that. Anyway, not a heap of spare time at the moment but working on it, all is not lost! Will probably have to do some fairly extensive rewiring, id say another week at the most to get it done. Thanks for your patience.,Hey there Aidan, just an update on the ribbon controller, the circuit was all stuffed up so I am rebuilding it now from scratch, so hopefully you will get a more reliable machine after I am done with it, any features that you wanted added while I am redoing the whole thing?,Coolo, no worries dude, just might take a bit longer, like I said not much spare time with looking after the BB full tiem, but its top of my list, should get it done in the next week for sure,Don't stress bout it, this kinda shit is great practice if I wanna sell more stuff, thanks for partaking in my first experiments in commercial production, next stop: China.,Saw the synthi that Eno gave bowie at the Bowie exhibition the other day, such a fucking beautiful thing. but I am going more for the flashy blinky lights crowd nowadays\   "random blinking lights forever, that pretty much what people think electronic music is anyways,Hey bud, finally got your ribbon controller all rewired and jazz, only problem is when it got ripped out the mounting holes for the screws got damaged, Managed to get a couple of them in but ya might have to tape it. Made a super ugly bracket to keep it in place, but tape might be more aesthetically pleasing. Ill give it a good test and make sure its working consistently over the next couple of days, but ya can come pick her up in the next week or so I'd say.,PS sorry it took so long, 9 month old baby = exhaustion and illogical thinking, which isn't conducive to working with hot sold<Name>g irons.,Oh shit yeah whoops. Yeah totally fine its all rebuilt and working good.,Ill be at uni in the shitty this week so can probably meet round RMIT somewhere and give it to ya.,Cooloes, I finish class Monday morning round 11, so anytime round then would be cool.,You in the city wednesday thursday or friday? can meet up lunchtime those days before class.,   used this instructable to get it up and running, are you sending it out of a MIDI port or through software? Hairless midiserial is good if you go software,or use the arduino midi library:\   "I usually use the midi library for most stuff, then you can just write something like#include <MIDI.h>// Simple tutorial on how to receive and send MIDI messages.// Here, when receiving any message on channel 4, the Arduino// will blink a led and play back a note for 1 second.MIDI_CREATE_DEFAULT_INSTANCE();#define LED 13   \t\t    // LED pin on Arduino Unovoid setup(){    pinMode(LED, OUTPUT);    MIDI.begin(4);          // Launch MIDI and listen to channel 4}void loop(){    if (MIDI.read())                // If we have received a message    {        digitalWrite(LED,HIGH);        MIDI.sendNoteOn(42,127,1);  // Send a Note (pitch 42, velo 127 on channel 1)        delay(1000);\t\t        // Wait for a second        MIDI.sendNoteOff(42,0,1);   // Stop the note        digitalWrite(LED,LOW);    }},Right on! Glad I could help man, looks sick, what is it?,Hey brargh, how ya doing? Can I come by and get the beatstep next week? just needa make sure I have funds together/convince <Name> its a necessary expense first.,Good to hear! Thanks matey, obviously I need a second step sequencer so I can sequence my other sequencer so shouldn't be too hard to convince <Name>. Get paid Monday so can swing by anytime after then, or we can meet at RMIT/city during the week.,Hey bud ya home or in the city during the day this week? I'm at uni today Tuesday and Thursday so can meet in city or swing by council st if you are still there,Okay cool I might swing by Wednesday or Thursday then. I'll let ya know,Hey man will you be at your place tonight round 6?,Cool I'll come by and grab that beatstep off ya. Will let ya know when I'm close by :),Hey man I'm on my way should be by in around 15-20.,Righto I'll just mill around if need be,Okay Coolio I'll be there in 5,Well if ya twist my arm... I had a bit of a tumble off of that railway bridge that runs over merri creek. Was taking a squizz and slipped right over, got knocked unconscious and woke up in the water about a minute later with 6 broken ribs and a head wound, the creek was pretty high and the current took me along, and I swam out and crawled up the bank to Rushall station, where I climbed up on the train platform and caught the train, the train driver called the cops on me. I looked like some soaking wet bastard, cause my jacket had been ripped in half and my clothes were in shreds, and I was bleeding heavily.. anyway, got stopped by the police at reservoir station and got into the ambulance and driven to the royal melbourne, where I was cleared for spinal and neurological injuries but got a couple of stitches in the head and 6 broken ribs. And here I am, 6 painful days later, stumbling around the house in fear of laughing, breathing deeply, yawning or hugs. Should come and see me next time youre down, I'll show ya my SCARS!,<name> was with me.. but he was passed out or whatever.  It was that one right near the albion charles, where the train goes over and there is a footbridge over the other side. had to wear a neck brace for the first couple of days, and the lungs are quite bruised. Got a morphine drip the first couple of days, which was the fucking shit, then they busted me down to oxycontin, endone and panadol. Said it'd take six weeks at least for me to recover.  But your party is in the middle of Jan  and i'll be on the road to recovery by then, so I might be able to brave the trip, with a little jamaican medication.,har har har,har,har,pink flamingos rules,you know they used to have midnight pink flamingos session sin the eighties, where they gave you a chocolate bar when you went in, and when he dog shit eating scene came on everybody had to eat their chocolate bar,I think it was a polly waffle, or maybe a picnic,oh right, you should wach it, you'd dig it.,broko,you comin to denny's bday tonight?,SICK TITTIES, GUNNA HAVE A GOOD OLD FASHIONED TEQUILA WINE AND DINE, NO LINES, JUST FINE COMPANY AND RUMPUMPERY.,pop it mamasita,WE SO EXCITED,EXCITED,EXCITED,ECITED,OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OM GOM GOM G,GOM GOM,OMGOMG!,;O,HD!!!!!!!!!!!!!               SIKKK!!!!,SIKKK!!!,So whaddya doin his week broko?,yeah hats a cool idea, itl have to be tomorrow or wednesday though as I will be out of this place after then yah yah,yah yah, out on wednesday,gunna move all my shit back to caulfield and sleep on everyones couches,til I find a new place,Naw, fuck that I'l stay at <Name>s and guses and jaydens, getting kinda sick of grattan sreet anyway,everyone is way too indulgent, doesn't really motivate you to do anything meaningful with your life.,ha ha ha ha,the  <name> altman jump cut,it won't burn your eyes out,I respect your artistic direction,going for houses, can I shouw you my email tha I am sending out?,Howdy, My name is Liam Power!!!!!!!! And I am not very good at socializing with other humans. Some people think it may be genetic but I know it is all in my head. LOL! I seem to have some sort of psychological deficiency when it comes to the general public. How do you talk to people? PLEASE LET ME KNOW! How do you forge lasting interests in people you don't really care a shit for? What is the nature of society? These are the questions that I ask myself very often, that is of course in between mindless drug/booze binges and of course my extremely loud noise music practice. I am currently living in a beautiful little terrace on Grattan street. All of my housemates are very warm and helpful. I would like to continue to live in an environment where I could just be myself ALL THE TIME! I like to do dishes and cleaning, and cooking is one of my GREAT PASSIONS. I shower pretty regularly and I like to stay in my room, is there a lock on the door in the room in the house? I would like it if there was because I spend most of my time naked or without pants. Though I suppose you've seen I all before. I am pretty hairy though. In my spare time I like to dance and sing and hum quietly to myself at bus stops. I also like to walk around and get lost and have to call people up to ask them where I am. My income is dependent on my ability to make up fake names for jobs that I haven't gone for in places that don't exist. I receive as much of a government pension as my station in life allows. Though I would not call myself lazy, I don't really like to move if it is not necessary. I have a co-dependent relationship with my mum, and I like to see/call her every hour. I hope that will not be a problem, if it is, then I guess you will have to leave. I enjoy alternative things in general. As soon as I find out something is \u201cALTERNATIVE\u201d I embrace it wholeheartedly. I enjoy tailored pants and walks on the beach. I like the cold so I will be keeping the house at below freezing most days. I dye my heair pretty much every day, to change my \u201cLook\u201dI hope you will find it in your heart to take pity on a poor embattled youth with a troubled past.Thank you Liam PowerXoxoxoxoxo! (LOL),I'd probaby get a place in footscray,har har,no drugs, just a couple of dudes hanging out together, enjoying each ohers company at night,call + centre,I was thining about shooting a video for a house application,I need help, thats for sure,Kind of like a dating video, but ya know, for housemates,like, shots of me doing the dishes, and scrubbig the toilet and taking about how much I love silence,with testimonials from all my friends,fuck yeah,I wanna do one of like someone being on the can and screaming OH GOD WE NEED TOILET PAPER and I come to their rescue or something,liek slide a beat magazine under the door,thats what I was thinking,and we could totally ham it up and make it funny and be shit, and see if they like it,I mean, my idea housemates would like something like that, so it kinda works both ways,wel I aint gaining any potentials with, HI, my name is liam and I saw your ad etc,I'd have that anyway, though and just sort of add it on if they wanted it,just be like, well, a picture says a thousand words, or something,BUT WILL THEY LIVE WITH ME,I think it was the roll at the start, really slammed the action home.,me needa jam a sock in your mouth,*we,you can't help it, everyone is so FUNNY!!!,hey cowboy,   "YAH YAH,hey buddy boy, hows the projects?,Hey  <name> dont have any credit but I was thinking about popping round to your place at some point, ya filming?,Totally, use the hell out of it. How'd last night go?,Blargh, what a shit. Lesson learnt: Never follow Jamis leads. See ya latero. Good luk matey,Holy fuck I always wanted to play one of those things. The hills hoist and ye fair light.,Yeah, writing a script for it at the moment. Trying to visualise shots etc.,Yeah pretty much, just trying to see if I can make a movie with no budget. Or whatever. Plus I thought the story would work better in film.,   is the sound of the 80s,featuring harrison, the synthetic lackey boy.,hey brookie hows it going? feeling better?,shit YEAH,yeah we are filming the bathroom and exteriors this saturday!,I did a rough cut of the first scene if ya want to have a look.,   is what I have of the first scene. Needs work,Hey buddy, hows uni goin? did an edit of the first act. Can ya have a gander and tell me what ya think?,   "SIK CUNTZ,fuck yeah,Holy shit. You just identified pretty much everything that was annoying me subconsciously about that edit. Psychic lady. I'll have another look at it and see what I can do. THat edit was pretty rough but ya know portraying like the overall structure so now I can go back and do the little stuff like you mentioned. I was kind of pissy about the titles too, kind of wanted something better but just threw that on there to make it look semi profesh. I got some cutaways for the first scene of like ashtrays and shit, I thought maybe there is quite a lot of  <name> in the film so I dont have to worry about having him on screen all the time, beautiful as he is. I was thinking about going and shooting a couple of cutaays and crap on the weekend too, just so I have that option. I likes how it went in the bathroom scene with the tap and I wanted more inanimate objects for symbolism kinda thing. Will have a look at the soundtrack and music too. Also the title I wouldn't mind having the title like scrawled on a piece of scrap paper or something drunklike. Going to shut up and go work on it now. Thanks for the input MATE.,YeehAw. Naw 'twas good getting some notes as I am obviously still a infant at this shit. Dunno if you're sick of it yet but here's the new edit where I implemented some of that shit you were talkin bout.    dunno if that'll work but yeaaaa,Siq as burn da candle at 3 ends mate fr us domesticated ones,Fuckin sick volcanic party pies,Nothing like boiling hot drunk gravy splattered on your chin to make you think 'I've made it',G2gmG m8 sleep nite lol!,   "theres a few electornic ones there,go nuts and use whatever you want, dunno how much stuff is suitable cuz I just liek bulk uploaded a bunch of stuff, but theres a bit of shit there for you to do something wif if ya want,SMOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOTH,pink eye? AGH,Sur eit is,Just uploaded a couple more I dunno if ya can use em,number 9 could be something,i mean 8,yeah I can dig, the rest of 6 went outta time and shit though si couldnt use it,but 3 is the shitty paser techno I was talking bout yesterday,phaser,thatd work!,Gopher it bud, pretty sure there's the possibility to just loop parts of it if ya nee it longer. EGGG,Cant wait to SEE,buttholio,yahpit,gotit,I'm IN!,hahahahahaha,so good,nearly shat myself,best reaction shots,so unsettling,surreal,yeah,absurd,yeah thats,it,ABSURD,yeah, super cool. Good flipping action.,visually, kinda viscous.,totally,kinda works cause you kinda of mistake nervousness for uneasiness and it gives it context kinda,kinda kinda,no WOKKAS,sure thing mate, it's always a pleasure doing business with you,Alright, just had a couple of ideas I was floating round. Movie is set sometime after the Cold War. Astronaut was sent out on a mission in the eighties sometime. Couple of days after he got to space he started orbiting the earth. Then his communications cut out.. Movie is set in the months following his shit cutting out and focuses on his psychological degradations as he stares at an earth that can't talk back. Kind of like a billion dollar sensory deprivation tank.,Kind of like Robinson Crusoe in space. Need to get <Name> earl jones.,Yeah, cause a lot of astronauts and shit came from the Air Force.,Flashbacks rememb<Name>g past contacts with humans he knows he'll never have agin.,Then he attempts re entry or something an gets burnt to a crisp.,<name> holm needs to star in it.,I'll knock up a loose script maybe if I have time.,Yah yah, I got a few shots I wanna do. Super wide to extreme close up. Have to look into making some miniatures or something. Har har.,Also kind of wanna get some rear projection or something in there. Maybe just with slides.,holy fuck, bought a loop pedal off don, so fucking great,its so fucking intuitive,its like an extension of my brain,made a track with it today,you hould check it out on soundclouds,hows uni?,   i hear ya, cant wait to make some wild soundtracks this year,yeah, just like hand looping drums with my sampler is so fun,plus it makes them less drum machiney,Fun fact,no shit we should have a jam soon,loop sync,<Name>wanted to have an electronics jam this week or weekend or something,Music,?,why did i write that,I obviously want to play some tunesss,na,m8,just tires,ohh yah, like the johnny maus sound,Dats cool, I found it in some old bag or udda. Ps that wah needs a 9v! Wooooaaaaggg tires!,Yeh but it runs forever off a 9v,Or if ya have one of those electro harmonic type power things it should work, kept meaning I convert it to normal dude power.,*to,Hye braltmann hows it hangin? was sond<Name>g if I might be able to get that wah pedal back off you if you aint using it, guna transform it into a synth filter,wow so many typos,Hey Braltmannnnnnn, do you still have that old CHS camera hanging round/ did you manage to get any footage off it? We were gunan do a savnobs video clip and as ususal I wanted that dirty old tape look.,*VHS,Awesome! Next time I'm round ill borrow em off ya if that's alright. Still gotta figure out what we're doing with it.,Hey braltermannn, do you mind if I quote dem vids I did soundtracks on ya for on my application for RMIT? Kinda think its relevant. When did ya do them, like 2013-14?,*soundtracks for on,fucking tongue twister, lucky im just typing it,its just this: I have been playing paid gigs around Melbourne since 2014, and before that I worked on a few separate installations/video art projects. One at Timbale richmond 2010, another at RMIT Gallery in 2012, and  I produced soundtracks for a few visual works in 2013-14.,YAH YAH YAH, I'll put you as a reference, doubt they'll call ya up but if they do just tell em about the soundtracks I did for ya and whatnot,Yeah man, pulling the trigger, I'm already waxing lyrical about the ARTS,Hey Braltmann, I cut a whole bunch of raw footage for a solo video clip today and am sucking balls at editing as usual. Do you reckon you'd ever have any spare time to help me out with some editing and whatnot. I just need somewhat musically timed jump cuts between 3 different angles. Or could ya point me to some really simple editing software?,Yep, imovie sucks anus, can only have two video tracks and cant do frame by frame editing and all that jazz for smooth jumps. Not up to much tomoz but my ass is grass all the rest of the week coz we be moving to the burbs. I got a roughie I can chuck up to show ya the gists.,WA WA WA. I'll let ya know whassup probs tomorrow afternoon. Will probbaly have to bring le baby,Yeah if ya wannnaaaaaa that'd be acie pants,Bike up YO,Its actually like a 10 minute bike ride,plus ya get to go downhill on the way back and do gnarly lygon street turns,yup yup, til friday,yeah probs like after 3? I dunno, depends on whatver you're up to,Yahooo,Dudes O' course, I would if I were you,Aww yeah I think I figured out syncing up the clips. Pretty sure it's all sorted so no big dealsies bout helping out.,/totally will hit you up about the savage nobles vid clip at some point in the future!,Hey braltermann, hows it going? Dunno what you're up to at the moment but you would be interested in helping us out with a vid clip for Jail? $$$$$$$$$$$$$ if into it. Actually probably more like $$$, or $$, or $.,Thanks  <name>, it's a real shitty time but he had liver cancer and was in a lot of pain so that's over now. Xx,I know it all happened pretty quickly. Only diagnosed 3 months ago. Cancer sucks. Cheers Brookey,Yes I will right away ol brooken let me just search the ol skull bank. We were only there for like 2 weeks so ya got more time than us for chillenz thats for sure. Tokyo is insane and can also get a little bit overwhelming if you hang there to long and you get information overload and you just wanna go sit in an onset and relax for a bit. I'm gunna write up all the places/cool things I can remember and put them into a handy word document for you but I'm no expert just a simple traveller unversed in the ways of the world etc. I had insane FOMO for the first couple of days because there was so much of everything and everyone was always doing things so I know dam feels but ya get into the swing of things after a while IMO.,Ygarghen, its like toeing the line between having no plan and just kind flailing around when you get there and having an iron clad schedule where change becomes an anxiety factor. Didn't <name> go for some massive bike tour round japan? Gather your info early I say and then sit back and watch the time crawl past agonizingly until you lose all appreciaton for you current life and then when you get back you feel like a dickhole for investing so much into a 2 week holiday and it takes a while to regain your old pleasures back in melbourne again.. whopps projecting :(()))())))),anyway, will write some stuff up and send it to ye at a later date. Japan is the BEST,It was made for obsessive personalities and peope with obscure interests,spiritual homeland,It was so fun we are going back again ASAP,we came back and were like, searching for exchange programs and jobs in japan coz we became obsessed with just the way of life over there,Dude thats so exciting!,Yeah, I'd say the thing I most appreciated was just the way things were, everything just worked. Me and <Name> actually spent like half and hour on the train just listing the things that are better in japan,yes lets all,so abstract but ya know, the fluidity and ease of an organised society is so comforting,its how I imagine a nazi train station would have been,Personal anonymity,coz I'm not being very helpful,*soz,How are you anyway! I haven't seen ya in a dogs age????!!!,How's country lyf??,well not really country,is it country? I dunno,goodone,I heard through the grapevines you've been working on some tunezzzz on the hush hush,Fark me too, ya not alone down here, most everyone I talk to now days is dissatisfied with where they are. Its like people hit 26 and there's some collective resigned sigh,I think maybe getting over the mid 20s mark and finishing studies and stuff ya start thinking what is it all for?,I'm still 25 til march so don't have to worry yet thank fuck,lawl,yeah motivation is the fucking key to it all isn't it,its not even talent or content,its literally being able to sit down every day and dedicate yourself to something,jacksons the best like that, gets up everyday, goes for his run and then pops off down the studio to do some painting,admire the lad,hehe,just stop comparing easel to jackson and you'll be fine then obvs,ourselves,But then again, life and mental illness and jazz,I'm just a sponge at the moment, stopped making music for a bit and voraciously reading/watching films/listening to music until I become bloated with meaning and then I vomit it out into my work,and internal discipline and willpower,most of the time for me lately it has been knowing when to delete a song/give up/strip it back and turn it into something else/get second order and think about the idea rather than the execution. Imposing strict limitations on myself seems to make me more prolific for some reason,blah blah,yesyesyes dear, I was wonderingrecently why when I was 19/20 I kept bringing to trax every week or so and the one different was I was less experienced and less self critical. The production side can get super gnarly and you spend ages sound designing and not enough time actually making music. Sometimes it is also the way you start as in I've tried starting from a different instrument, or just a lyrical standpoint and that seems to help. Finally I reckon collaboration is the name of the game because you automatically bypass some of that self loathing stuff by having someone objective around to tell you when stuff works and when it doesn't. But anyway, I have those same fears and worries as you man so always down for a chat about it eyooo.. Been listening  o heaps of electronic stuff recently, Snowy Red, D.A.F, Fad Gadget, Liaisons Dangeureuses, Carol, Front 242, Minimal Wave Tapes, that sort of stuff, all me jam. I can link some youtubezz if ya want. Oh yeah and Les Rallizes Denudes, japanese band from mid late 70s are fucking amazing. I'll link you a song now.,   "Actually I totaly thought of you when I first heard les rallizes denudes but forgot to tell you bot em,I'm obsessed, <name> brought me back Heavier than a Death in the family from germany when he was over there what a guy,yassitis night of the assisns 24 mins,aw shit I've got laptop fangers,thats why I'm so verbose,I'll get on me phone,O,K,Hshshsgsi,Shites,000 siri call,Set reminder do dishes,Jdj,Search pornohraphg,Severe back pain remedies cheap,Actual search history,Toddler asks to tickle willy what to do,Actually happened today,I just said ask your mummy,Jk,Lalalalala,Gross,I sicken myself,Bleergh,Good chats though we should totes catch up when you in Melba next budolo,Dance card full dang,Well anyways I'm usually free Monday Wednesday Thursday if ya come down during the day coz <Name>'s in daycare,So let us know if ya come down and we will have a cafe or summat,Bully!,Bonz,Porbiters,yesyes willdo,I'll try and get it to ya before you get on the plane but not sure if I will have time,PS here's some stuff that my friend Ace who has been to japan like 12 times sent to me when I was about to go:Tokyo : 1. Hedgehog cafe. Roppongi Hills, Tokyo. Don't bother booking a time because they make you book for hourly increments and even though hedgehogs are pretty amazing, you don't need an hour. Just rock up at opening time and grab 30 minutes. (Get a small hedgehog - not an adult. Glenn's was...a little too sharp). Sidenote: they also have lizards. ^ This is probably only if you're really into spiky cute things.. ** Sidetone being that everything else in Roppongi is kind of shit, by most accounts. Just a bit of a soul-less place. \   Harjuku, Takeshita St, Sundays - feat. Yoyogi Park & ramen. Big yes would be Takeshita Street (main drag) of Harajuku on a Sunday. I would avoid late arvo because its fucking packed (if the weather is even slightly nice expect it too be busy.) However - despite the crazy it is still fun. Weird shops, maybe some weird costumes if you're lucky too. Stop and have ramen at either "AFURI" or Ramen Kyusyujangara Tokyo. The former is meant to be the bees knees and the latter perhaps a bit more commercial - but we both rated Ramen Kyusyujangara way better. + it won't have crazy lines. and you get a key chain if you order heaps (hello white people). Head to Ropongi park right near by. If its nice-ish you might want to get in with the locals and bring some drinks and food and maybe a frisbee - its like a weird post-card recreational area where everyone hangs and naps and plays weird racket ball. A decent walk anyway! 3. Robot Restaurant - I was pretty reluctant but it turned out to be the best ever. You don't actually eat there so eat before/after. Pretty sure you have to book before hand online so would probably do that! 4. Tsukiji Fish Market. Pretty standard for everyone to go here to the front market and grab some grub and see some weird see creatures that are edible -Make sure to not just go to the front market, but also to the back/wholesale market. Thats the real killer-whale sized tuna, blood and guts on the floor kind of vibe. It is great. Just head toward the water and Hamariku Gardens via Shin-Ohashi Dori and keep your eyes out for lots of people driving around on carts and gains sheds. 5. Hamariku Gardens. (My favourite gardens in all of Tokyo - more so than the imperial palace). Given you'll already be in Ginza if you've been to the fish market, you may as well head to Haramiku Gardens (10-15 min walk, tops). If you're into picturesque stuff then this is pretty good. it's 300 yen per person for entry, there is a tea house on the water, and there is a particularly awesome 300 year old pine supported by many stilts. If you go give it a pat from me as its a good mate. 6. I don't know if you've been before/if you've been worded up but you definitely need internet. Either if your phone is awesome/your plan and you know you'll get coverage etc - if not - rent a portable wifi. They last the day, the cover is decent and you just need it to function, basically. Makes life 100% better. 7. Head to the Shibuya cross walk. It's that crazy one that everyone always takes photos of/films. It is pretty impressive on a Friday night at about 8. Theres a fuck tonne of food everywhere, heaps of weirdos, a few record shops that are well stocked, lil bars etc. Drunkards Alley is not far off - def worth a check out. You think it'll be packed with american tourists but it isnt. Its scummy as fuck so they all scatter. 8. Go to a fucking kareoke bar. Just do it. You're not too cool for it. It is the best. 9. The museum of contemporary art Tokyo. If you're into that, their held collection is fairly good and they seem to host decent tours regularly. Can be crowded, so just be there at opening. That area is also fun to walk around - a few random cemetery places and an overall "ah, suburbia?" look at Tokyo.  10. If you find yourself staying near Shibuya looking for a dinner spot - book a table at Teppen Shibuya. Pretend it is one of your birthdays, or fingers crossed it is someone else. You will not regret this. (The food is also pretty great.) Not too $$ either. 11. Cheapest (fee wise) for withdrawing cash in yen that we found was JP bank ATMs - conveniently at most Family Mart's. Keep an eye out. 12. ^ on that note: Go to a Lawson's. There are millions. Head to counter. Point at chicken-nugget looking things. Order many. World-renowned. Then head to ice cream area. Find \u201ccoolish\u201d. Buy the white one. Thank me later. Mate also swears by the curry donuts.. 13. Head to Ichi-ran ramen in shibuya (but there are a few of them in various parts). There will likely be a line out the door, but run with it. It is like the glory-hole dining experience you never knew you'd enjoy. The broth is pretty decent - definitely order extra pork though, and ask for the richest broth on your form (trust us). It's more for the weird-factor (again, we were black sheep and preferred the Harajuku off<Name>gs). 14. If you're into either cooking, plates, or (as I am) plastic food: Kappabashi street AKA Kitchen Town (near the hammock district). If you want to buy a fancy knife, find a lantern, or just stare at fake spaghetti - great value. 15.  Donki / <Name>Quijote. Giant dime store vibe, usually a few floors - just full of weird crap and food and house stuff and a weird sex section. Also good value if you're like \u201cfuck we need _____\u201d. It is the local Mecca. People don't go in there cus it is daunting. But do it.. 16. Kin-notorikara. Chick shop. Don't hesitate. Get involved. KYOTO1. If you can and if you're willing to delve into the more traditional side: book a night (or two) at Shiraume. It's fucking amazing and is really just an experience you'll remember forever. Amazing staff, amazing building (hundreds of years old), and you have to get dinner each night in your room for sure (breakfast too is great) - they turn Kyoto's traditional Kaiseki dining into a whole new level of insane. HOWEVER. It is on the expensive side and often booked out - but sometimes if they have a room spare they will offer dinner to non-guests. It is in the most pretty part of all of Kyoto, so it is worth heading for a walk to it at night anyway and asking if you haven't emailed ahead. You'll catch some legit geisha walking to appointments if you're lucky!    ^ Try and book a place for a Kaiseki experience.  Spring a little on the meal to do it right (then eat Lawson's rice balls for a day to compensate). There are many, many restaurants that offer this (several with stars) - I'm sorry to not have a specific option for you, but a handy hint is to book a lunch sitting instead of dinner. 1/2 the price for the same experience. Crazy town. 3. Nishiki market. A bit tourist-y since even 5 years ago, but still kind of fun if you're happy to eat some samples, eat misc. meat on sticks, go for a wander, etc. 4. ^ As mentioned in point one, really, but it is worth going for a walk in the old Gion area. It is a bit further away from the main  drags, but are some of the best preserved parts of town. In particular along the Shirakawa stream. 5. Head to \u201cTorito\u201d for dinner. Make a booking if its a weekend night I'd say. Or just rock up early-ish for dinner (keeping in mind Kyoto is a little sleepier than Tokyo - people eat a little earlier). Amazing yakitori, really great. Great service too and a swanky feel to it. (Do not get the liver though. You will think it might be good. It will not be.) 9-6 Higashimarutacho, Sakyo Ward, Kyoto. Not heaps of English amongst mates here - but you'll get by enough. 6. There a literally more shrines than dead people in Kyoto. This is fact. And I've been to a lot of them. And you will too. HOWEVER. I found one that is now my favourite, so I'll just offer that one up. Choraku-ji. Many hundreds of years old. Many graves up in the mountains. Explore around at ease - its totally zen. Way less busy than any of the grand shrines - and just had a much greater impact on us I'd say. 7. Dinner: Sushi train. Chojiro-Shijo. kind of commercial, a few westerners in there - but surprisingly decent fish despite this. We were ready to turn on our heals but were starving enough that we stuck it out - and didn't regret it. A decent option maybe for a tired night and you want something easy-peasy. 8. Fushimi Inari shrine AKA many orange gates. Popular. V busy. But yes, many tori gates which is cool. Just really busy which takes a bit of the magic out of it. However - street vendors around sweeten the deal, and if you keep your head up headed back to the station there is a cat cafe that you can take a breather in on the way back. 9. You should really have some beef whilst you're here. Its kind of one of their things. Even if its just a stick in the market - get the fattiest marble you can and have a chew. OSAKA.1. Osaka aquarium. Bit of a train ride - but its kind of cool to see what you're having for dinner up close. They have some weird shit and it is good value. OH and you can pat a sting <name> if you're cool with shoving kids out of the way. And they had a monkey at one point (no - I don't know why). 2. Osaka castle. In the name. Pretty busy, but pretty impressive. 3. CHICKEN. Kin-notorikara. There is actually now one of these in Shibuya too (much to my delight this round). Get it when you're hungover. NOTE: the brown sauce option is not BBQ. It is chocolate. Learn from me. 4. The love hotel district in namba is worth a walk around at night - they seem to put in more effort with their decor (pretty lights abound). 5. America-Miua. It's like a weird fan girl district to westerners. There isn't necessarily much to *do* here, but its an area targeting to young-ins, and there is some weird fashion shops going on and what not. ^ I stayed in Osaka for only 10-12 days a few years ago and didn't love it, hence not many off<Name>gs. HOWEVER I am probably the exception - it is young and vibrant area, so not sure why I just couldn't get into the spirit. If you go, book a tip to Nara. You're close so you may as well.,so fun,Hey bud, are you alright?,Awe fuck. That's pretty awful. Obviously out of my depth not having full knowledge of the situation but sounds like it involves a lot of dark shit. Let me know of I can help in any way though or if ya need to talk more or whatever. Fucking shits about the job. Xx,Hell is other people. You guys will get through it though, I bet. Sorry I'm not that great at reassuring people but I can totally listen. if you need to vent just gimme a ring or we can grab a caffeine when you're in Melbs.,Story of me life bud. No stress! Just don't feel like you can't talk to me about stuff I spose is what I'm trying to say. If ya want generic then ya know, support through shit times is a big part of what friends are for and all that stuff.,No worries matey hope things go well. Not missing out on much down here as far as I know. Gang is fairly splinterey but I think there is some collective nostalgia happening at the moment which may bring about some wholesome good times and laughings. Will stop rambling.,Haha yes will do. Was reading an article about nostalgia the other day, which was really interesting about how people use nostalgia to make themselves happier and how it's a myth that people are ruminating on the past to the detriment of their present lives. But also collective nostalgia induced into a population can make them. More nationalistic and less tolerant of others,. Might try and organize something after Easter when  everyone is home again. I'm putting a note in my calendar which means it will probably get done just so I don't have to feel guilty about reminders.,,Boss. Keep yer chin up matey. I'll cast the net,Hey Brork How ya doon? Anyway I'm writing my artist CV today and am a bit thin on the ground as far as past exhibitions. Did any of the sound work that I did for ya end up in RMIT exhibitions back in the day?,woah that anyway was like: "enough pleasantries",Oo good idea,Haha yeah I did a site specific installation in the phone box last year and I was like. Public artwork on Franklin Street, cbd,I bulls hottest my way to something resembling an active artistic practice,Bulshiiteed,Stupid phone,Feel like I could just cruise through art school on soft waves of bullshit,WOAH CASH PRIZES,Hey Dani, alright, how you doin?,Oh yeah, I'm alright, fell offa railway bridge,like ten metres into a creek,I slipped and fell off the bridge,But I'm ok now, 6 broken ribs,hurt a bit, but ya know,feeling better,whisky does that to you,oh yeah, its all good now, we got lots of music shit happeneing now. Few bands and stuff, been writing too, lots of short stories and shit.,Oh yeah, well if ya wanna see what we're doing now I can give you the link,   "a couple of songs me and <Name>were working on,what are you doin gnow, finished your finals?,Oh shit, that sucks, but you'll see us soon if you come down.,But thats cool that you are traveling around,could go on a road trip or something,or camping,theres no place like home...,no problem, by the time you come down I'll be driving round,thats cause  you had such fantastic company,no problem, but I prefer sir,so did we,time flies baby, but I think peopl enever change that much,just develop,back soon, dinner.,Hey daniela, how you doing? What are you doing nowadays? just fucking around I guess? Got real nostalgic the other day. Remembered st kilda beach. Kinda wish you had a geographical thing to remember me by. Isnt it fucked up, we met about seven years ago now? Do you think if we met now we'd like each other? Not sure. Anyway, not sure why the fuck I am writing this. Hows the weather? har har. Really, hows things?,Hey Dani, dunno I you've seen anything about the politics in Australia at the moment but the whole country is doing pretty terribly at the moment. I'm just surviving, dropped outta uni and working, making ends meet. Me and <Name>are playing shows now, songs I wrote, which is good, and in my spare time I'm making electronic instruments and stuff like that.  Also got a baby boy or girl coming along this year so might have to put off any more international trips for another couple of years. How's things with you? Did you end up getting into that diplomatic thing?,really? what was I doing?,Wow, cool. I love it when you have dreams set in the present about people you haven't seen in years. Its like you get to see all the assumptions that your subconscious has made about them, and you see what you imagine their life to be.,Hi Dani, thanks so much. Really hard times at the moment. He was surrounded by his family and he wasn't in pain so I think it was his time.,Also sorry to hear about your dad,It's this sort of thing that brings family together, I know! He is almost 2 and giving us lots of trouble!,Yes! Thanks Dani,We should hang sometime, movie night with beers? you are old now yeah?,Ok man, monday soudns good, talk to you sometime.,Pretty sure I am not him, never been to Belgium. Hope you find him though! Good luck!,Hey sorry it took me so long to get back to you.  Parklife is gone, md was a one week thing, been shifted.  Thought I told you?  Don't know if you heard.  Tip: Don't ask me for drugs.  I'm not some fucking mule.  If you want drugs go ask a dealer.  Remind me not to tell you shit again.,I hope qt stands for quite terrible,Well, put in my application for the dole, so I guess I really must be getting older,How was grats the other night? tap some ass?,that could be a headline for a segment on a current affair,"bludging round the world",bludging is a fine art,all of those difficult explanations to greedy capitalist family members, dodging all uneccessary activity, I liek to think of myself as a conscientious objector,I know, you are pretty much a textbook degenerate,and you succeed,a;right deary. have a blast!,Probably see ya at gratz,sweet virginia,probably goin to this gig after coming to gratzy,what about you dudey,yeah, the price is right,cant get lean in dirty water,a sound investment,clean,lean enough to fit in a mass grave,yeah, we get anorexia,or type 2 diabetes,or gout,or cancer,you can be a gouty wench,got a nice ring to it,well, at least theres some fruit in there somewhere,you know I am a descendant of mary queen of scots,yeah, I heard it somewhere from my great grandfather,and he never lied about anything but his health,so is half of france though,A fitting precendent,precedent,fuck,so, ya feel like listening to me and denholms most recent track?,Its a wild ride!,and we need uhh, opinions,we are very insecure,and vulnerable,like 14 year old girls,   "follow that, I promise it isnt a virus,an aeroplane bathroom,we were trying to be, ya know, like a machine,I was thinking more of a connect four type situation,well, ya know, theres another one, if you wanna hear it,   "oh yeah, that one is called the noble is the spider and the peasant is the fly,which would be a fucking good name for an album actually,fuck yeah, we all go through a fascinatiion with that type of shit,I wanna do some medical drawings,but I can't find a subject,maybe I'll dissect a pig or something,then eat it,cooked by the lamps,FUCKINYWAHH,good idea, I'll probably be along in an hour or so,see ya tonight vegemite,after a while crocodile,thats not how you spell lover,whats happening,boss actions,its a hard life,me and <Name>are rehearsing this afternoon, then I'm pretty sure I want to get completely fucked up tonight in preperation for tomorrow,maybe, maybe not, maybe so. I dunno.,but if I am going to piss all over myself while crying and vomiting into a bucket, I don't wanna do it at home.,Dramatic license baby, but I'll let ya know if I come in.,har har har,I like cats,The egyptians fetishised cats out of an innate cultural impulse created by the rigid social order.,see ya roond,On every occasion of a fire in Egypt the strangest prodigy occurs with the cats. The inhabitants allow the fire to rage as it pleases, while they stand about at intervals and watch these animals, which, slipping by the men or else leaping over them, rush headlong into the flames. When this happens, the Egyptians are in deep affliction. If a cat dies in a private house by a natural death, all the inmates of the house shave their eyebrows; on the death of a dog they shave the head and the whole of the body.,   "who needs a third party,and a masters in bullshit,I recognize your struggle,couldn't hack it alone could you,you're weak! WEAK,tell em I say that they're WEAK,with their other hands clasped around each others dicks I'm sure,fucking what a junkie fuck, tell him to get his ass in gear,well tell him everything is ready for his narrow ass, I gotta go buy some strings,Aw god, I am at home sipping mulled wine, fucking head cold central, I don't think I'm going anywhere for a couple of days, or at least until I can extricate the twelve kilos of phlegm from around my body, and stop oozy the greasy sweat of an invalid.,yeah well some of us can't afford juice,the LUXURY,hope the envelope will hold it,put it in a glad bag,Go with the flo,did ya like my comic,I thought is was very well drawn and witty,they werent meant to be YOUR tits!,it was a generic predatory girl,GAWD, the EGO!,A SCUMBAG full of healthy confidence?,confident in the knowledge that you will be a scumbag?,oh yeah I forgot last time,fucking hell, I challenge you to go one day without a donut,I CHALLENGE YOU,how the hell can you resist the word CHALLENGE,CHALLENGE!,CHALLENGE!,CHALLENGE!,you could be CHAMPION,yeah,and your prize can be a donut,great minds,all the shits,MATE,fuck, well ya know, she brought you donuts, ya gotta repay the favour somehow,just give her a fuckin number 2 and get on with it,jsut get the clippers out,give her a chrome dome,sinead it,   "   "BAM,You are on a fast track to baldsville,or ya can just eat shit and buy wigs,eat shit and buy,burn the witch,god no,bangin,which book?,Free piss? well howdy do.,Hm.. I'm still pretty fucking broke and snotty.,Ar ar aar, so did I,Christ in heaven, you make it sound so appealing,well, I'd fit in,Mass suicide?,Jonestown suddenly makes a lotta sense,I dunno if I'm up to coming out tonight, might just have a wine and cohen night. Coughing up a rainbow of different phlegms.,No doubt, well, I'll needa borrow a new book from ya soon.,cool bangers, also I lost my phone I think when I cunt thumped ya on the fake horse,well, as long as they were sent somewhere, gotta express yourself sometime,shes close enough,Hey bay what you doing? Jamming tonight methinks so IO dunno what you wanna do. Thought you were coming over today at some point.,Cuntalinger, might meet you a bit later as I am trying to find shit in the maelstrom of assorted hell that is my life, in other words my phone charger. Fuck the world and all of its fine print bullshit. I might be round before 9. Wanna get dinner or something somewhere or something?,alright cool found my phone charger, charging my phone, will leave in half an hour, wanna meet in the city at like 7:30? Dumplings?,   place would be great if it wasn't in such a shitty location,Zang dang doodle,That fairfield place looks pretty schweet, that seddon place is like 4 minute walk from my house now, I think if we go for footscray we should try and get as close to central footscray as we can. I like the nicholson sreet place though,That place looks pretty coo, foo.,Not as cold as my freezing nuts.,how could I be wearing pants while I'm talking to you baby... grrr,Check and mate,got all the lone wolf and cubs. Fucking yes.,Har har, cool. I'd totally live there,Do it. is it saturday? I'll come too.,   The guy on this blog writes just like me!Hows shit moving for ya babe?,   "Possibility?,Naw you can do it if ya want, I got resume shit to do.,Bat those lashes baby, Bat those lashes!,Jami is a prick, don't worry bout her. You can paint better than she can, you dont even need blood.,U R SXC,Suck my nuts,Hi!,Asl?,;),Na lol not old enuf,Na lol not big enuf,Lol jk,Big as bab trn on cam,Trn on cam first!,Trn on cam,Not ur face lol,Lol na jst show me 1,Nip,Pls,Pls,Pls,I'll show u my dik,Pls,Wat u want bb,Nething,Lol not on camz,Cam,Awww lol,Half of ur pussy on cam?,One lip?,Half a lip with backlight from ur phone,That's dik,Sik lol,Where'd ya put the last label?,Found it no bigs,Arhar community college,Ha ha,Where's my bleeding bank card? Isn't in the neck wallet.,Cool, just know that I am the better Liam.,Found it, thanks,Yes!,Ha ha, shore. <Name>gave me a ring though and wants to go for beers someplace tonight.,Also I got credit,Don't stress too bad about unpacking, I'll put all my shit away in the next couple of days.,hey buddy, having fun in class?,Hey matey, got the rent money and enough to cover bills. Gimme a call and I shall fill you in.,Not being rude don't have credit remember? Get some green shit if you want but it'll be fine w/o it.,AWWW bb wuv u 2 un me agst da wrld bb!!! xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx,lol cxum,typin wif ome hnd lol,2 rub dik,lookin @ pics of u,lol,wut? pic didnt send????,SICKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK,what a fucking trip. Got to <Name>'s place and couldn't find the spare key so I had to walk down to high st go to a payphoen and call <Name>. Thenshe didnt pick up so I had to go and get change and then come back and pump coins into the payphone til she picked up. Turns out she left the spare key in some fucking cryptic place cause she is ultra paranoid about people breaking in so I had to walk back, tell the lawnmower guys to get started and find the key now I can't find the damn phone cord and I am ultra pissed off.,I know fuck. Now I can't get onto her cause she is at work so I'll probably have to stick around til the lawnmower dudes finish up so I can pay them.,plus it took like an hour to get here,GARGH,didnt realise how reliant I was on my phone til It ran outta batts.,looked froe both. even looked therough cleas drawers and shit. Dont really wanna look through kims drawers and shit.,STRESSED,Yah,I can stop by northcote plaza onthe way home and grab a cord,ARGHHHELL,Why the fuck do I have family and friends,I just wanna stay home and watch sopranos and eat CHIPPIES,If only being too lazy was a valid excuse,Ahhhh <Name>got back to me.,RELIEF,she left me some chips and chocolate har har har,I'll save some for you,yeah, shes typing now,soslow,old people,OH NO SHE ISNT TYPING NOW,she is but she is saying that she doesnt know where the cord is,BASTARD,oh well looks like ill have to buy one on the way home,fuck knuckles I was meant to visit <name> todayu,GOOOd GRIEF,Why is it that everytime I do something for someone it is at the expense of someone else?,we have too many whiney people in our lives,this is bad, this shoiuld be a lesson to us,WHY?,BLARGH,I'll try and find a cord,cant find one fuck a this I am going to eat some fucking chips,yeah sure.,yeahhh,where should we meet at flinders? near the florist?,we should pick up some wine too hey,guess we can do that in richmond,sick, well they are pretty mcuh done here so I can meet ya at flinders at round 6:30?,OH NO LEAVING SHIT TO CHANCE,YAH YAH YAH,   "STFU BITVH,LUB IY SMY,wha?? how did we miss eachother? I was waiting at the tramstop til like 2:45! I'm home now.,alright. I'll go over to collingwood and get the camera off j boy.,yahalright,I cant believe we missed each other. I waited inside centrelink for like 15 minutes then waited at the tramstop and watched everyone get off the tram so I could signal you. Anyway, they said theyre sending the forms for processing and I should wait around for their review of my "case", therefore no extra casj. I texted mum and asked if I could borrow a couple of hundred bucs. Otherwise I can ask <Name>.,SO STRESSED OUT NEED FAG,ur ugly,:(,yeh, castrated m8,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get fukd,get stufd,piss off,na,u homo,i see 1 on the tv,dumo,dummo,i do,its where chix piss,from,out of,n shit,lyk not shit, like and shit,yeh but na,na,u do,u r shit,na,gonna have a fag,in my butt,in my bottom,in my bottom,,\u201cThe Pure interpretive model\u201dThe strand of criticism that I wish to focus on here has not alleges the impolicy of the new doctrines, or their lack of internal coherence or principled articulation- those are the familiar themes of comtemporary constitutional commentary. Rather ot has urged that because the new developments rest on principles not derived by normal processes of textual interpretation from the written Constitution, they represent a wholly illegitimate mode of judicial review.\u2018Where constitutional materials fdo not clearly specify the value to be preferred, there is no principled way to prefer any claimed human value to any other. The judge ust stick close to the text and the history, and their fair implications, and not construct any new rights\u201d (p.704)\u201cNeutral derivation of constitution principleNeutral application of principle\   vp.318 2nd paragraphp319 second parap.320 \u201cIn addition the relative contentment with the unwritten constitution owed a great deal to the stability of the democratic system in Israel.\u201d So countries with a less stable democratic system are in trouble?p.321 \u2018in the long run discontent with the lack of constitutional review has grown...the reasons for the discontent stem from developments in Israeli society and the Israeli political system, especially during the eighties. In general it was possible to say that those years mark a deterioration inn the political morality and ethics in Israel. Politicians proved to have less self-restraint and sensitivity to public opinion.p.321 The result is unlimited demands from...and even threats by interest each having the potential of negating the delicate majority groups supporting the government.,",""""" ",,,",""""""""""""""""" ",,,   "GUEST POST LIAM POWER GUEST POST LIAM POWERDad. Pops. Father. Poppa. Papa. Daddy. Daddy-o. Bastard. All names which I was rarely called before, but ones I'll hear every day when my son evolves from grunts and squeals to using mouth words like a big boy. But what does \u2018dad' even mean? A distant, alpha-male, stressed out, aggressive dude that smells slightly of beer? A overly-supportive, catch playing, sports organising, proud dad? Or one of the other unique variations of testosterone and baby powder that makes up one half of the parenting team?Now that reality has hit, and the questions like \u201cWhat the hell am I gunna do with this screaming lump of flesh?\u201d and \u201cwhat do babies even do most of the time?\u201d have been answered, more complex questions are coming up. The books aren't really helping. What to Expect When She's Expecting was focussed mainly at the 45 hour a week, workaholic, ulcer dad. There is a whole chapter devoted to how to communicate with your child when you're on a business trip. I don't feel like that person, but maybe that person isn't a dad either. The \u201cgood provider\u201d and \u201crole-model\u201d, are words which hold little meaning to me at the moment (though I guess they will become more important later). I always thought the best things you could do is love them without smoth<Name>g them, be supportive but still provide guidance, be proud but not blind and arrogant. Influence but don't force. Help to shape them, but don't try and jam them into somewhere they won't fit. I think these questions, like many others, will be answered by a mixture of experience and intuition as the kid grows up. I also have a feeling that I will learn a lot of this from him, and from learning to anticipate his needs and wants. In order for me to help him, I have to know him, and be close enough that I can tell who he really is, and what he would do and say or think in a given situation like psychic parenting machine....But I am getting ahead of myself, the kid isn't even here yet, and when he is, I won't have time to dwell on things like this, being ear deep in shit and stress. I guess my main worry now is is not about that I will be a dad, but what kind of dad I'll turn out to be. <Name> has it easy (in this respect only). She is already bonding with him every day, even if he does make her vomit sometimes, and she can't help but love him and will have a connection with him that I will never be able to have. She will be his main source of food, for a start. But what am I going to be, except the guy that stuck around? The parent that nature and society have made pretty much unnecessary (for good reason) and is often stuck playing the supporting role, looking in from outside. I definitely don't want to be that. And I suppose a big part of it is subtracting all the things you don't want to be. Once I've taken all those away, the picture gets a lot clearer.,   "Yeah that looks fine babe,Car?,Laid down with the back seats down and the boot thing up?,Is power back on?,Oh k. Ya gunna pick me up?,Cool breans.,See ya at 9 then.,I gotta poo,Don't want to do it at work,Naw babe. Gotta go back from break.,Possibly?,Monkey butts! Did they stop?,   "cafe good,   "   "BOIGES!    "  """" "   "   "   "looks like a sex toy,for my bums,hows it gahn love?,rolling round like a boss. Really good, went till like 2am mixing, nearly done, only  2 songs left,Eating a burrito,Will reply after,hahaha, a friend of mines parents had that car,it was a fucking beast,off road down sorrento,Woahbergs,What a chunker,he obliterated that,thats like you witha  cupcake,lol,off to the shops, c u l8er. Lets have mad factimes after <Name> goes to beds,HOLY FUCK,he is so damn close,he looks like hes trying to bang a watermelon,<Name>just said "maybe he's gifted",what a dude,hes gunna be crawling really soon,hes sucha good boy,I dont want him to grow up!,I want him to stay little forever,nah jks want him to be old,lol,organising the studio,what you doin?,sounds sick as,gunna watch netflix I bet,I gotta go down to the studio and sort sort sort sort,Im not allowed to go to bed til it is all SORTED,nest nest,nest,nest,ttyl,luvsu,oh haimark,youre my favourite customer,   "I never Hiit you,hey baby baby baby, hows it gahn? Paul and Deb are having a bbq with the extended fam in northcoat on saturday, wanna go? There will be cooing ladies and babies and food,at 3pm,I reckon,yeah I reckon, but thats like 10-2,or 10-12 rather,FAMDAY,How you been sweets? did ya have a nap?,Tell Christos happy bday,for whenever it was,and also to move down to melb,coz she hasnt heard that idea before eh?,yeah babes, just did some washing, hung out with j-boy finally, opshopped, worked on some projects.,Going to the studio tonight to finish off the EP with dong <name>,its my new name for him, pretty resourceful,LOLS,yeah, I mess you too honey, we will be together soon, whats the plan for thursday?,okie doke,fingers crossed!,my sweet potato lady,sounds like a fun time for <Name>,lawl,Hell yeah! What a week!,My boy!",""""" "Yeah binaural mics are de shiiit,Why are you going on a tech binge?,Ps have you left the Berra?,Is she staying at our place btw?,Poop my boy! Just change him into some nice clothes, he'll go straight away.,Yuck bergs. Get some on the road? Christobel will have some?,Youll be fine, christos is driving so you can just chillbag with <Name>,yeah no worries babe, study your heart away tomorrow, I wanna spend some quality time wif ma boy,Ha ha!,He wants more nap.,more nap pls,cool!,souds good, lets try her out when ya get back,See a soon buddyyyy,Shit shit I forgoto get formula. Do we have any?,I can quickly go now.,Fuck sorry. I can o down now. Do you reckon they'll have readymade  packs at woolies? We can sort it out when you get back?,Ok. See you soon.,   "did you wanna pick up <Name> or should ?,I,also dunno if we can have chicken for dinner, its taking forever to defrost,might be done by tomorrow,I had to take them all cause they were all frozen together,and I cant get them unstuck from one another, so im letting them defrost in the fridge til I can break them up,im cool to get him, was just wonderingif you did, ill figure out something for dinner,probably eggs,yeah sure,get some mince,and a snak,that would suckass,fuckmuscles, still, 20 bucks we coulda spent on BUTTS,   "Chris FreemanRecruitment, Training & Quality AssistantThe Social Research centre pty ltd8354 3672,Tom Oliver Cati coordinatorRoy Morgan research pty ltd92232416,3 Johannes van der Meijden (Joop) 1917 (Deceased 29/7/1998) married to Cornelia  (Corrie)    The Hague   Ph  0703682239 1 - Margaretha Johanna ( Marrie) van der Meijden  1941  (Divorced)Eversweg 1,  6523 LT, Nijmegen . Ph 0011 31 24 3225431 or 31 62 0737727Cannes Rue George Clemenceau France 52 same  phone 06Marjolein  1964 married to Ruud  1962,  - daughter Marise  2000Lambert  1971 married to Marit 1972,  - daughter Roos ( Rose)  2002                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2 - Abraham Cornelis (Bram) van der Meijden  1944  married to  Johanna Hubertine (Joep) Fransen 1950  Vliegenvangerlaan 6,  2566 RN, <name> Haag    Mobil 31651291930 Ph  0011 54 07 03683276Marc Andre  1968 Tamara Fritzi  1971  Divorced. Children - Sylvester 1993, Felicia Valerie 19943 - Lambertha Hendrika ( Bep)van der Klooster 1946 married to Adriaan (Ad) 1940  Straatweg 278,  3054 AP, Rotterdam Ph 0011 06 2855777Michiel Adriaan 1972Joost Reinout 1974  married to Leontien Alejandra van Harlem  1975 Children -  Isabelle Jasmijn 2003,   Feline Sophie  2005 4 -  Johanna Cornelia (Janne) Frey 1951  married to Bernhadt (Ben) Bertrandt Russellstraat 164, 1097 HM  Amsterdam Ph 0011 06 27005360    Marisha   engaged to Walter  (marry Sept 05)5 - Cornelia Reinetta ( Lia) Adams 1953  married to Gerrit Hendrik    ( Ger)   1948.   Mobile 31653294150   Ph 001131105113230Marshof 15, 2651 JE, Berkel Rodenrijs. Ph 0011 0033 5113230Rogier Hendick Willem  1979 Justin Gerbrand Johanes  19816 - Johannes  /(Joop )van der Meijden 1952 married to Petronella Yvonne ( Ellen) Arnolda  van Leeuwen 1956De Klerkplein 11, 2728 EH,  Zoetermeer. Ph 0011 31 79 3479632Martijn Johannes  1977 married to Birgitte Sigrid Frowijn 1977   4 Margaretha Cornelia Boers ( Gre) 1918   Deceased 15/1/2005                   (3 marriages)Pel  deJonge \u2013 DivorcedDirk van der Keijl \u2013 Deceased 11/12/58Pieter Cornelis Boers \u2013 Deceased 2/12/001 -  Hendrina  Margaretha (Hennie)  Buhler  1945 (Divorced)Plantage 149, 8212 VK Lelystad, Holland  Ph  0011 31 320230154 Wendy Seline  Rose  1978  Boyfriend, Diede van der BergPeter Donat  Johan  19732 - Adriana Jane  ( Jane) van Bostelen  1957 married to Peter 1958Kamp 11/38,8225 DB Lelystad,  Holland.  Ph 0011 31 32 0231471Robin Sebastiaan 19883 - Dirk ( Dick) van der Keijl  1958  married to Anna Maria                    ( Annemiek) van der Keijl \u2013Duin 1966Wilhelmina Bladergroenweg 23, 2331 BZ Leiden, Holland Ph 0011 31 71  5764718 Jorien Denice 1989 Koen Pieter 1994,MinceShepherds Pie F (mash on top, little bit of mince)Bolognese F (plain penne, small amount of sauce)Lasagne BurritosBurgers Mince, Beans and riceChickenChicken Risotto F (Watch Salt, take out ours, overcook till gloopy)Roasted Chicken Breast and Veg F (A bit of chicken, bit of veg, bit \u2018o cheese watch seasoning chicken)BeefBeef Stew F (feed to him, messy)Beef Pie F Bangers and mash and veg F (Mash, bit of veg, bit of sausage)Steak and Veg F (Veg, and mash)VeggiesVeggie Soup F (toast and soup, veggies and a bit of cheese)Veggie CurryPumpkin soup & bread F (toast and soup, veggies and a bit of cheese)PorkCarbonara Bacon and Eggs & Avo F (Avocado and Toast)Chorizo or Sausage and Bean Stew","" "What time?,Are mary and lachlan coming down with the car seat?,you finally saw jurassic world!,<Name>might be working monday but ill ask her,should we leave it up in canberra for when you're p there?,wait, are bugaboo prams good?,SEYWAT!,yeah itd be fine as a backup, kinda wanna use the silvercross though,WEll maybe ill use the silvercross and you can use the bugagboo, coz the silvercross is special to me coz my family pitched in for it,ITS SPECIAL TO ME!,wat about spring huh?,huh?,wanna know about prams, look t up then smellies,whats the haps anyway? hows frankman,oh buttholes,sounds like hes moving onto a new stage,fuck,you poor thing,double trouble,no more hotdog shame,we should facetime tonight, im at home and got me mac all charged,MY ASS,im eating ravioli,mmmnum,MMNUM",""" "I had fancy cheese that <Name>bought me, and 90% cocoa chox,with olive tapenade","" "<Name> missed a video chat with you.,get facetime dummy","" "8816,K,DIDNT EVEN NEED WHAT A HASSLE FOR NOTHING U SUCK ERN,DK,DIK,U A DIK,<Name> missed a video chat with you.,   "k,sounds good,   What about these?,or maybe these    "or these    "   "   "Her eriin oneill, did you want to pop into vinnes and do that lounge suite thing on the way home? I can do it if ya want, just might be easier for you plus doing housework today,Thank,hey dont have my phone on me so just get onto me on here if ya need me,cool!,see ya soon,been cleaning/tidying all day to prep for tomorrow,hey dont have to listn but can ya tell em if you can open this link?\   "   "Yumvo,have you eaten your muggie cake yet?,WANT FOR XMAS GUNNA SAVE UP\   "They're pretty cool,YEAH!,Hey baby, my phone is on the fritz, what time do you want us to pick you up from the aeroport tonight?,Cool, thatd be ace! Alright, we'll be there then. Whats on the slate for today eh?,Oh cool, yeah, that would be awesomesauce,Probably will!,SWEEET I WANT A BRICK,fancy,that looks awesome,whups,SICKAS,Y delete msgs,SICK AS. Does it have angry burds?,YESYEYSYESY,Can I haveit?,Love the colour, is that hot pink?,OH MAN. POP3 IMAP PARTY,Do you have charger forit,NICEONE","" "THAT PHOTO IS OF ME I OWN THAT JUMPER,This is gunna be me. No time soz I'm a busy man.,Too busy for a chat, just gimme my money and go home plz.,I'm gunna be the guy on the right, and you'll be having fun on yr phone with some other guy. I'll be like "So sad, oh well.. playing snake 2 gotta get a good score mate",WOAH,SOLD,17yr old <Name> woulda been like "take my money!",Haha.,Yup. You a dik. Oh well, as if you was gunna spend 50 bucks anyway?,Nah m8 u got responsibles,Youre a big lady and can make your own choices.,It was your call to quit smoking so its up to you. We have drastically cut down so thats good. How nout if we set ourselves a maximum, and if we go over, it comes off our faags for the next day. So max 3 but if i have 4 then i can only have 2 the next day.,Glad you plopped,Ploppy,Oh cool,Thats gr8,Um, why dont you cleanse yourself in the waters of lake minitonga,Nah too much heavy breathing,Im puttin the other one online,Probs best not to reveal our secrets to the world,just poo it,was gunna,Bullshite,Try to get in for 130, coz I have class til 4:30 on wednesday and someone will need to pick up franno,Oh, thats fine then I can pick him up,Yep. In the library,Building 8,Not so mister,That would be nice I gots to work on this presentatiob due tomoz!,haha, oh god,nah comic sans hot pink,YOUR HIRED AS MY SEX SLAVE,nice pic,ask,asl,?,hotas,blergh,found a recorder for 170 bucks which is a really good deal, ill text mum and see if shes happy to go halvies,okay buying recorder, will hopefully get it within a week.,Get sexy and I'll take one witht he canon later,Mum will give me some money next week for it, should I wait until then and by it now?,Or buy it now,Actually found a better deal for 120 bucks but the guy can't meet up until 5:45 in the city. Would that be alright with you?,Cool beans, I'll hang in the city and pick up the recorder. Means I get it tonight as well!,YESYESYES,that sounds nice actually,Thank you for being accomodating to my art shit,you are good lady,you r cool,every speaker in the library is giving out this really annoying buzzing sound,its so distracting,yesyes,thursday night pls,I wanna hang with my bb,Wheres a good place for this dude to park in the CBD for us to make exchange?,Like, elizabeth st?,a 5 minute park or something,once again getting this    120 bucks. RRP is 450 bucks.,I am genius,EULOGY,UROLOGY,DEF WISH,U GOT 1,TLK 2 ME PLS,Nah kjdt about to go to class. \ude12,Kk will help I will be home at like 5:30,Wait what!!! Omg calling you now1!!,looks pretty good!,yeah, probs not gunna jam out there, probably mix music at listenable levels. Will bring headphones anyway so that if people complain,I can switch to cans and JAM OUT,yeah fair enough, as long as we had lockers or something I think it'd be a great idea,wanna have fag,totally, as long as it didnt cost too too much,would be nice to have out own space,we will be able to,look around in coburg and stuff where ppl dont wanna go,com kiss mah but,yeah exacts and probs cheaper,Aww butts. Done with my session on mt way to the station now!!!,Put <Name> in front of peppa and do some study? Extenuating circumstances,Therapy went really well! She said I am making a lot of progress and probably only need to see her every fortnight now. Is that alright with you?,Pasta SauceFarmer John CheeseMilkBreadJam,Coffee,Sweaties,K,Yeah mj bale is on me list,Oh my fuck,Boorang,Im in studio working hard 4 da moolney,Woah what I want a free spanner !,   "   Bit expensive but look sgood to me,   "   "Slim fit looks wierd on me, I need tailored or regular fit,   is nice and cheap,   "Shite,Hope he is alright with it,Gunna have a break in 10, wanna have a drag?,   "Fancy,Come make some wif me,I'm gunna poop first,\udca9\udca9\udca9\udca9\udca9\udca9\udca9,\udc7b,\ude0e,What u want for din?,Can u help me?,   "  " "55 Stop is like 50m away,DEAL WITH IT,behind you,Cool,So you're gunna be a high flying executive,And I'm gunna be an Ivy League professor,I'm down,still gunna make bank like a couple of hoochie mamas,   "This exists,is hat dirt all over it or bad pic?,I gotta wee,I'm gunna go wee,bye,brb,afk,   "trololololol,shiiiit,ues!,where u?,fuckholes,its cool. I'm gunna head off now,phone ran outta batts dididnt notice :(,\udbb8\udf2a\udbb8\udf2a\udbb8\udf2a\udbb8\udf2a\udbb8\udf20\udbb8\udf20\udbb8\udf20\udbb8\udf20\udbb8\udf20,so I'll just make my own way home now, I'll try and be back in time to go pick up fran,lol just come to the studio in future if ya can't find me?,well I don't have my phone so that might be hard to figure out. I guess if I'm not home by the time you head off to pick up <Name>, then I'l wait at strathmore for you? might be best for me to just leave now and I'll meet ya at strathmore at 5:20?,what do you think?,blahwhateber I'm just going to leave and try and get home before 5:30. can probe get the 4:45if I leave now,Pie,CroissantsHamNutellaBaby FruitsApplesSnaxRavioliPasta SauceParmesanButterVegemiteBrioche BunsMinceCarrotsAvoZucchiniCranberriesCornLettuce (rocket or Baby spinach leaves)TomatoPancake Mix,nah go muesli,Can you add 27 1/4" bike wheel or bike service to our trades list? My back wheel is still fucked and I reckon someone on rt could totes help.,Also known as 700cc,Also on the train,Cute,I'll be 20-25,its next to coles on syndey rd,near fat harrys,cool, ordered under your name,estimated ready at 8L14,8:14,lol,On me way home now, should be an hour or so, see ya soon!,Was real nice. Reminiscing about the old days. <name> is being really strong and it's really inspiring.,Soooo hangry. Had dinner with <name> but he can only eat like 2 bites so he isn't buying much food lol,Cant, got the 67 to domain interchange and then 55 home so nowhere to eatt,Will have a sammich when I get home,Sammiches for little boyz,\udbb9\udcf4\udbb9\udcf4\udbb9\udcf4\udbb9\udcf4\udbb9\udcf4\udbb9\udcf4\udbb9\udcf4\udbb9\udcf4\udbb9\udcf4\udbb9\udcf4\udbb9\udcf4\udbb9\udcf4,\udbba\udc23",""" "ur fave","""""" "   ",Where you?,Cool I'll meet you at becks coffee at 2:30?,or 3,Haha okay then. I didn't buy anything but got my eye on something.,LTR goalz,   "WANT 4 XMAS,!!!,Fair call. Crazy Kats,Yes,Come on matey,Little bit fragile,:(,Having sum yogurt,<Name>came round,Haha I think we've  been on the right track giving each other a little space this week. Mood swings are much easier on your own. If I hadn't been running around all week I don't think I would be coping as well as I am. You are doing great as well. This is the longest we've gone without a cigarette since we met! (except when you were pregnant of course) but this time is different obvs. Stay strong sweetie. Xo,I thighs we weren't buying a fridge till may. Pretty sure it'd not urgent,Its,Oh cool,Haha,Lawl,Cute,I dunno if I can handle two confident girls who need attention in the house. I I only have so much to give,I yeah we need a chillet,Fair call,Yeah if you don't need a be there just don't go!,Totally understandable. Just chill a bit tomorroq,Hai,\ude30\ude30\ude30\ude30,Yeah!!!!,Cute,Yes,Would be nice,That's fine,It'll be worth it,Might chill <Name> out a bit ey,He was super nice with the kitties around,Man I had to sprint for the train at Southern Cross and I'm not even that fucked,Think all this cardiovascular exercise is paying off,I was like, moderately fucjed,Me two weeks ago would been like,Shit yeah thanks Lauren!,Yeah that makes sense,Not worth buying a whole year's supply that won't get eaten,Apparently it's super common for toddlers <Name>'s age to be scared of the dark/spiders/monsters apparently its an evolutionary step which got them ready for running away from real monsters when we were in the early stages of modern humanity. Doesn't serve much of a purpose now but seems to make sense because last night when I out him back in bed he panicked until I lookedfor/said bye bye to all the spiders and monsters and gave him reassuring pats,Yeah so I guess taking him into our bed too often might be reinforcing the scary or something. Kind of impossible Le to refuse him though,It's the tucking purple book,Whoever got him that can eat my butt,I know,Hope he's doing alright today,,Don't you have to do your test?,Sick as,Let me finish this chapter and we can watch,You are pretty,Alright I will find it","" "Thumb man,Strong,   "hey what type of earrings can ou wear again asking for a friend,you can't wear studs can you wear the hook ones?,okay cool thank bb,so you could wear something like this?,okay cool thanx,noice,p my friend wants to know if something like this might be nice,my friend is very hopeless at choosing things,and is fat,okay cool so more visually busy,more like a pattern rather than single shape,my friend is very grateful for your consultation,,",""""" ",He's an old nonna,It is a bit hot I think we need a head back,Well yeah we can just get <Name>to watch him and then it's redundant,She will,Yep,Haha, thanks bb. I love you too. See ya soon,yankee blue jeans,fuckboi 5eva,He was alright, we ran around the backyard for a bit and then sang ol mcdonald on the guitar. Had some lamb wraps for dinner (he had a bite and a chokit sanwich and yogurt thing),then bath stories cuddles,now just kinda lonely,I really wanna watch blade runner,but I left it too late,when will you be home?,yeah I'll still be halfway through,I'll just watch some youtubez,okay,xx,yam,Hey me and   <name> are gunna go see trainspotting at the nova ta 9.20 which brings me home around midnight is that cool?,Oh poo,Uh yeah,I could see it twice,I've seen trainspotting like six times,Oh my God ill watch it with you some time,Lol,U a dik,Are you actually Pissed? I can't tell,Oh ok,  <name> doesn't want to see it coz I banter too much during movies,He said I ruin the movie,With my witty banter,I say I make it better,He doesn't believe me,It's okay it was just a passing comment thing we were just like'let's go see a movie that might be fun',But we can just sit and drink in a park,Getting the tram in 5. I'll let didi back in if you could leave the back door ajar for me?,Slepy girl,I'll probably be home in halfa,<Name> is crazy,Can't relax,So tempted to ask <Name>for fag,Okay,We gotta stay for food but I prefer this than to just ignoring him on our phones at home tbh,He might survive til tomorrow when we can do it during the day,And get the cot out and stuff without him getting in the way,I have uni too,Oh geez,Okay,Well I guess we will do it when we get home,No stress,Okay,Okay,Lol,Love you too why you saying hello,Shut up gotta put Fwancis to bed real spoob,Spoon,What are you aaliyah stark,A girl does no see,A girl does not know,Arya,Looked it up,Aaliyah stark is underwear model,   "That sounds good!,Yimma,Yas!,PS yes I'm gunna hang around and do some homework/housework tomorrow so fine to pick up groceries,Yeah get hd201s,Or hd202s,So comfy,Hd201s are my silver ones,Dude hd201s,They are the best and cheapest,Trust me I'm a sound dude,202s are awesome,dude get ripped off if you want,doesnt matter what they look like matters how they sound,your sonic funeral,thats actually pretty good,your english lecturer's dulcet tones will be more personal than ever before,plus you can blast toto,lol I was kidding about headphones I don't care what he hell headphoens u use,was just making recomendations,bred,chipz,maybe,Hell yeah,   "On my way now. Stopping at piedes to get some stuff for dinner. Do you want anything for later?,K xx,,Enjoy air-conditioned,Enjoy break from babs,You would just ended up. Watching West wing,Accidentally haiku,Every night the sameGrand projects plannedTV always wins,That's my haiku,You're a derp,Haha <Name>'s kifey,Life,Soz typing while walking g,Haha you suck,Woah I pocket sent you that gif,I don't even know how that works,the house is so dirty\u2026 I just put <Name> down and I'm sweaty as shit. I'm vegging for half and hour and then blitzing th edging. got work to do tonight too. When is sarita coming tomorrow?,*joint,so i may have a couple of hours in the mornign to tidy up?,okay ill do a pickup then,its actually gunna tka em elike two hours to clean up the loung/kitchen. everything is everywhere,take me,very hot todayyyy,velly ht today i fink,opening all windows didi can do whatevr,man that is so much cheaper,how many days is it?,yeah but way less cash,i mean we could probably go out and buy coffees,with him,and pass time,that way,I will be in third year so going nutso,totally,we dont know what he will be like at 3 though,anyway I gotta split cause sarita is coming,talk soon,Yes!,Let's carpool bb,Why not study in library,RMIT Brunswick,Studying in library,Yeah do it lets get eat I'm starving,Although I did just get here,good call,oh k ill be there in a min,not sure wait for me!!!!",""" "   Use this if you are procrastinating,   "OMG crying",""" ",No, shit holes! All good huh Oram and stroller were run the car so we had an adventure on the way home,Nah it was fine. He needed help getting up Coonans Hill but was pretty good at hand holding the rest t of the time.,Plus we got a bonus trip to the playground and having chicken nugs with frozen peas for dinner so pretty typical baby life,Woahdude,PS I am on the bus,Was so anxious,Don't stress too much about picking me up from Southern Cross but maybe you could pick me up from Strathmore?,Okay cool I'll keep you posted lovey,Yeah it's pissing down,Haha, cute please send pic,Yeah I know we has a pretty shit time trying to get some sound and video today,Fucking rain,Haha,Why has he got that glovv,Random glovv haha,Rofl glovv,Jaha,Just kidding I am very seriously,Fucken toiley,Geez us,Jam some towels in there!!,Fark! Need a man,Jam a t-shirt in there,Just fill up all the gaps with a bunch of stuff,From Southern Cross?,Yeah totally as long as it's not too hard for ya,I'll get in around 6ish,Yeah Yum burgs you,Oh Google maps says we have another half hour on the bus. I'll probably get in at 10 past,Bossos,Bukowski,Help me bukowski,   ",Haha, Yay!,I think people work really hard to gender their kids so he stands out coz we don't necessarily try,He couldn't be q gird coz he isn't wearing a headband!,If I didn't wash his hair pretty regularly it's be so gross,Lol I'm in class and the only one whose phone is constantly going off I'll talk in half an hour,Hello,You can track my location if you want,I think it's fun and cool,Yeah matey I'm near Victoria st,I'll be home in two shakedown a man's tail,Shakes,And you can watch my agonizing walk home from Melville,Oh the voyeurism,I gotta piss in the next half hour or so I reckon or whenever we can pull over,U guys still at questos,Kk,   "   "  " "   "   "   "What was the recipe for that chicken slow cooker thing?,Gunna look up some pasta to go with it coz <Name> wants sketti,Yep now he's forcing me to draw animoolz,He Frickin loves his new tent,Yum,Is that a euphemism,ARE WE SEXTING RIGHT NOW,\ude1c\ude1c\ude1c\ude1c\ude1c\ude1c,Poopa,I'm gunna meet you at your work so don't leave without mr,Sick as just at fed square with jboy,www.cookingforbusymums.com/slow-cooker-mild-beef-curry/,,,,,,   "The video chat ended.,The video chat ended.,Slok,, u rock,,Oh no my computer is too old,Haha. Can't believe it lasted 8years,Now that's a bargain,Yeah it's late 2009,Ok cool I'll just ask my rich daddy for a new macbook,Haha it's still kicking,No need for a new laptop til it dies,Okay coolios,Hell yes,Yeah I start at 10,Got a guest Lecturer,Then I gots to finish off this thing,Got til midnight tomorrow night and I did 800 words today,Haha you ding us,Things me and <Name> have done today so far: dishes, sorted his clothes, sorted plastic containers, put ragu on, cleaned the cupboards, put more washing on, made a healthy lunch and danced to wheels on the bus in the kitchen.,Coz I'm a good dad and d cent person and don't sit around with him all day like you think I do ya dingus,Kind of run out of shit to do though,Yeah later on. <Name>is coming round at 1:30?,It'll take a couple of days to do a hackintosh. You can use the cable we got from jb hi fi and connect your macbook air to the monitor +keyboard and mouse and it'll be pretty much the same.,Like just use it in clamshell mode,Yeah exactly. Pretty much functionally the same,And then I can take my phone I'm with the hackintosh stuff coz it's fairly involved,As in needing to patch the bios and stuff,I can totes do it but it's not just like a quick install,*time,Sick as,Yeah just out it on ya credit card or something maybe,Or after pay,Yep,Gibson sg,Mam I'm such a big good ideas man,Mammy,Which is is your macbook using now? Sierra?,Os,if you want to help me out with the Hackintosh thing, use the RMIT internet to download macOS sierra from the mac app store. its like a massive file so might take a while, but yeah will take heaps less time than it would at home.,sick ill get it off your comp when you get home,haha yes!,whups,it should come up with \u201cinstall macOS sierra\u201d on a hardrive,in the application folder,screenshot?,you can't force quit?,cmd option esc,okay cool you know how to force quit look at you big dick,if ur such a hoaxer then go here and download unibeast and multibeast\   "Sik as,\ude02 Haha","" "Buckle up teddy,How do you get Fire?,Lox or salt n sauer,Can't choose!,PS windows 10 reinstalled on yr computer and looking goooooood,Full HD maaate,Celt we can't eat h anything in HD cox of shitty Internet!,144p in 4k for lyf,Otay mommy,So epic,Did you put <Name>'s black Jumper somewhere,OH GEEZ IT DISAPPEARED,Oh yeah I'll look thanks for the fresh mind,Found it now he's off with Mary and lachy,Haha,Okay cool sounds goodoh,I finish at 12.30,Okey,Do key,was fixing my bike for a while,got premiere pro for my assignment,did some journal entries,did the washing,haha just a list of things I did today,cute,haha more like dropping tiny washers and swearing,I was meant to go out for a bike ride to take some footage for this assignment but I spent the last couple of hours fixing my friggin bike,classic Lembo,I'l be able to pop out tomorrow afternoon after we get back from the city probs,or on the weekend for a couple of hours,That sounds amazing,Can you take me to that weird bush park we went to with <Name>? I am pretty sure I'll be able to get some good footage there and it's not too far,Oh no!,Haha,Just chill and let it flow outta u,Holy shit this vegan curry looks good as,Me and <Name> went to piedes for spices,Whole house smells like taste world,Just calling to say hi,Nothing pressing,Pretty gooood,Want me to come home or go get a celebratory lunch in Brunswick or something?,which one?,haha cool, I'll just finish up at uni and jump on a 19,yeah that makes sense,I'll try and gert that fried chicken burger,Waiting at Melbourne Central now,On 19,Did ya get any of my messages ya dokt,Oh you suck,I thought you were just being rude as,Yeah was thinking as much. That's cool, I can always drop him off later,Second question is do you want to go for a little grocery shop when you get home we need dinner stuff.,Third question is what do you want for dinner,Fourth question is asl what r u wearing,Haha good glad you are round day to learn. I can change the owner on your comp for the next couple of days if you want,Password,Fuck worst autocorrect ever. I can change the password on your account so you don't play skyrim,All work and no play makes <Name> a dull girl,Redrum,Oh that's nice,<Name> keeps wrestling me and getting me in a half Nelson,Oh wow great job did you eat the whole thing?,So proud of you,Gifted and talented!,The final countdown is on?,Smash it bb,Oh my God. Where do you out your chocolate chips making Fran a treat,Good, bit whiney and needs lots of cudols,His ears seem semi OK though,Gave him some medicine after brekky which I think helped,Haha. My cookie mixture is real stiff do I add milk?,Okay maybe it is perfect then,Dude you rocj,Wait when do you finish?,This is at least one of your last shifts,Poops,Just DW about it til oater,Later,Kool,Yeah just a little longer,Life will be so much simpler working,Yeah you smashed a lot today, just chill for a bit you can always more tonight after a nap,News to me,Man you're a machine,<Name> has been doing dock hands and holding three lemons for like half an hour,Sock handzzzzz,Guess what his sock puppets are called,Yeo",""" "I'm <name> too,Sorry he wanted to take a selfie for mummy so <name> and Tom coils show her the lemons,Now he is punching his giraffe,That could be in the paper under 7 killed in emporium shooting","" "It's actually quite a catchy song,<name> tom,<name> and tom,Basically the same level of complexity,Should I make proper dinner?,Nah CBF. I'll make you something when you get home if you want ant or just grab something in your way home,Gave <Name> some dins already,Nice one baby I know to tofay must have been hard such a long day let me know how I can help,Okay nice well I've got three assignments due Monday and Tuesday so tomorrow is my big study day,K Kool just got him dressed out of the bath so might not be communciado for half an h,,   "We're alright. <Name> is in the bath, guns have a srory and then bed. Nothing to report!,Yar,Sweet. Yeah fair call,Haha, otherwise you could sued their ass,Misrepresenting product. Go to the ACCA,Wait, ACCC,[ ] Milk[ ] Bread (Light Rye)[ ] Croissants[ ] Protein Shake[ ] Up and Go[ ] Eggs[ ] Lunch Containers[ ] Carrots[ ] Popcorn[ ] Cat Food[ ] Snack?[ ] Razors[ ] Body Wash[ ] Acne cream[ ] Handbag organiser?",""""""" "<Name> is saying 'kitty Kat cat for mummy',Haha at least you get to listen to podcasts,Audio books?,Just pretend you are on a long ass drive,Got lots of yummy treats for you when ya get home \ude00\ude00\ude00\ude00,Way to leave me hanging,Haha no you were typing a message for like a minute and then stopped,Hell yes,To both,Haha yeah bit steep,Nah regular,[ ] LASAGNE[ ] 1KG Mince (nice)[ ] Lasagne Sheets[ ] Butter[ ] Carrots[ ] Green Beans[ ] Tiny Teddies[ ] Raisin Toast[ ] Bread X 2[ ] Rolls[ ] Garlic Bread[ ] Bacon[ ] Avocadoes (multipack)[ ] Snax! help with depression[ ] Pink Salmon (tinned),   "Haha yeah sounds good,Oh man, macbook showed up on the apple refurbished site, basically brand new for 1300. wonderingwhat to do.,   "brand new battery and 12 month warranty for 100 bucks more,yeah, plus its 256gb storage which I need,128gb is like fuck all for audio and video and stuff,yeah, they are the same model just one has 256gb sotrage and the appl eone has 128gb,yeah I'm jsut gunna get the one tonight,apple charges liek 300 bucks to upgrade from 128gb so I'm getting really good value with the gumtree one,like it was 2500 bucks new,so less than half price,I rule,Coughing lol fit in class,Fml,Someone needs to write a tribute song,OMFG in the space of one day my old lecturer emails me asking if he can show my work to the new first years as an example of what to do for his class, and the class I do have I walk in and the lecturer is like, hell yeah good to have you along this semester Liam so excited to see wha t you come up with. Gunna get frickin Golden Child syndrome at this point.,friggin didi went on the roof again but now she knows ill grab her by the scruff of the neck so she runs away every time I put my hand up there. So I had to get the box from the corner of the lounge and hold it for her to jump into which she thought was great fun.,I have no flicking idea,K. You reckon you can handle it?,Yeah good picks,how the fuck,the job market is fuckeyes,poor thing. You'll be out soon,Oh Geez,Oh well all part of learning,Hahaha cute,Send pics,ROLLOLOLOL,I a troll,Yo are you eating dinner at work or shoudl I save you some pie?,koo,Kool,I'll you buying another pouch or are we quitting? I'm already like 6hrs in,Cool banana beans,Boss hoss,Real boss hoss,OMG <Name> did a poop in the bath and got soooo sad,He just kept running round being like "I did a big poop in the bath, AAHAA", DADDY NEEDA CLEAN IT UP!! *,I eventually reassured him by being like, and I don't worry daddy and mummy pooped in the bath too when they were little,Dude just pretend you did plz,if he asks,Now he's like "Mummy and daddy and francis poo in the bath, its ok!",I mean I wasn't encouraging it or antyhing, but was just like "everybody has accidents",Not neccesarily a fan of when he poops in the bath,I know,Mummy's pelvic floor was weakened by a massive baby called francis and she is easily startled and holds on to her wee for way too long,And why when you do there are always wet stains,that you blame on didi,Yes please just so I know when I need to pick up <Name>/what to do for dinner/when to have mistress over,Poops,hows it going now?,Thunderballs,Cool bananananas,See you spoon bb,grab some snax if ya want dont if you are too tired no presh,This is snek,I'm a ghost,I'm a ghost,I'm a ghost,I'm a ghost,I'm a scary ghost,I'm a ghost,Not yet, not sure when Cathy gave them to him,She kinda ran off,Nice berg wanna get lunch?,Ooo juicy,I'm getting the train home \ude22,Well ya said you were studying,I dunno get a sammich,Get coffee ansbcroissant,I hangry,Go shops buy donuts and cupcakes,Heyago,Omfg,Woot,So we won't be eating chicken nuggets for Xmas dinner,OMFG the opening is tomorrow night,I'll call mum,OMG oh well just be glad you're nto freezing your ass off picking <Name> up,Join the cluuuub,Good idea,He did really good holding straight all the time way home and is bone dry. I am soaked,It started pushing down as soon as we left,Pissing,Dadlyf,He made me stay for so long when I picked him up,Lol I just watched over like 5 babens while they had a snak,They were learning about Mr angry today and I was asking <Name> if he ever felt angry,And some other kid replied, no, daddy gets angry,I was like \ude22\ude22\ude22\ude22\ude22\ude22\ude22\ude22\ude22\ude22\ude22\ude22\ude22\ude22,Yesh go ahead as long as we go to bed early tonight have sleep debt,If i dont sleep well tonight I shall die,goodbye I am ded,I am putting off making dinner coz im tired as,PS buy more chocolate cause I ate half the block coz im stressed,Um I'll see how I go, I should get home round 11 but yeah in the afternoon ya should be good to go, like 3 or 4,til whenever,was gunna make chicken pie tomorrow so might wanna be home for that but I can defs save u some,dont forget to buy choc,otherwise youll get mad,I hate myself,Omfg,How to fuck are you Sposed to memorize 50 characters in a week,Fucking language component is such a bad idea in practice,Yeah if anyone you will be able to do it,Hmm, so once you learn what all the little clauses or syllables or whatever mean you should be okay,Hmm, who would have guessed that Japanese was a bunch of well ordered symbols which are inscrutable unless they are all memorized by rote from birth.,Meh, you laugh at engrish memes?,Maybe you were accidentally saying funny things,bludge class lol,Comment on an art piece I was reading about lok,Lol,Nah on 19 heading to Coburg to meet up with <Name>and <Name> they are at Zaatar or possibly the library. Maybe you could meet us in Coburg and we could grab some lunch or something,<Name> can haz cheeseburger,Kool beans lemme know when you're close by and I'll let ya know where we is,He forced e to take that photo. He was like: Daddy needa stop under the tree take a umbarella photo. send it to mummy,twas cute,Also impressed with his ability to form full sentenced demands,great job francis,multi task demands now,\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d,Ha,Do ya need me to save you some pie or are you eating there?,Non diplomatic version: CAN I EAT ALL THE PIE?,Sweet,Potato,<Name> is having tortellini,Koo,Haha,Just use the the place as your own personal car park/study hall,Plus u can destroy the toilets there wif Ur hot dog poops and save ours,She was just complaining about how Noone knows she's good at art cause she doesn't boast enough and also how Pissed she gets when other people complain about their problems cause hers are so much worse,PS where is <Name>'s face cream he's gotta rash,Vitamin a?,Found it I think,Kool,Giving him now,Mr manager,,Ha classic <Name>,Just manager,lol,Gawd Waite an hour for five mins with nurse then back to waiting again. Probs gunna run late to class omg,Oh and they put eye drops in that burn the ol peepers,Just sitting here accidentally crying,\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d,Yeah, he said I could show up later if I needed,At least they out the drops in at like 10.30 so they'll have worn off by 1.30 probs,Gunna eat some blobs for lunch tho,Feel like they cheapedout on the decor of the eye and ear hospital because they assumed people couldn't see it.,OMG eye drops now I can't even see my phone,Not even sure what I am writing anymore,Thanks to autocorrect Noone can ever tell,Ooh I really want a coffee but I'm scared they will call me while. I'm at the Cafe,Omfg Sophie muciniekaswhatever took my retinal scans lol,She was like *I was at your wedding! ',I didn't recognize her coz my vision is all fucked,Haha so funny,Also I have met her like once maybe,So intimate,She saw the back of my glasaballs,She was like, nice retinas man,Youngest person here by 30 years,Omfg best,Figured as much,No worries. You can cut me off and I won't get offended I'm Ur husband,Too important for little ol me,Gotta go do my delayed auditory feedback performance now,What the Fark?,Jaysus,Golden Child,You serious?,Woah,That's so fucking cool,What the fucj,Actually floored by that,When?,Tonight?,OMG fuck you,Oo nice one,I swear they just make it early so that people get stressed and at least do something by the due date,Nope,good cleanse,Jesus","" ",7802,Nah was just checking in. In a meeting but will call round 2,Such a relief,Dude great job. You just needed someone to give you a break. That's such good news. I'm proud of me!,When is Japanese again/when do I need to be home by?,Fuck yeah,I'll be home round 5 I think just doing some mixing for q project,That would be great I needa study like a bastard and got the room all to myself so wanna make use of it,I'm gunna get the 4.43 Craigieburn so should get to Strathmore around 5.10,Well Cleas party is on Sunday so you should do Saturday if you can,Wait, I have class tomorrow at 10.,Oh well just a meeting with the cohort. Maybe I'll bring <Name> for a trip to he city,Might be hilarious,Classic clients,Sounds fun. Then we can go home and you can study!!!,Yeah sounda good. Me and <Name> can go to the Cafe,And buy donuts,And cupcakes,Gotta find a kid friendly Cafe in the city,Sounds Gibson sg,I gotta write a blog post tonight but did heaps today,Pretty much finished my composition for week 12,The body sounds one. It's super immersive,Kind of relaxing,Like you're floating inside someone's body,Which wouldn't be relaxing at all actually,Coz you'd be drowning in blood,Too real,What a sooky,I am at Strathmore,Super fast trainolo,Haha what a surprise,Yay,Nah come pick me up PA Let's go to sevs alevs and get bread and milk then pick up Fran You have fag first thigh,Kkkk,I am gunna have fag now too,On my way home now.,Forgot fags so gasping,U r a genius,Found out my reflection is due at 5 today so don't know what I'm gunna do. Its only 500 words. So fucking busy today,Typing some on the tram,yo its been five minutes brah,You are a pawn in their game,yo time for bed fatso cum hav a fag wit me,show my vegana and bobs,snek,sssss,show me,your vegana,dude time for bed come on,geezy petes,its gunna be late as <Name> gets up at like 10 to 7,DUDE I AM JUST HERE COMENGEDDIT,What the fuck?,Sounds like a scam to me,Got a letter asking me to join an international secret society of high achievers,OK so I should join,Will look good on the old resume,Gotta fork out a hundred buckolos,Yeah it looks really good. Like I get to network with other high achievers and stuff,Woah, I'm in the top 15 percent of fine art,HOLY Shit this is actually  really cool,Gimme a ring when you can!!,<Name>'S BEEN WRESTLING THIS DIRTY OLD BAG FOR LIKE HALF AN HOUR,It's alright he stopped when I made him Ravioli,U out it down and he started singing that song lol,I put,Poo sold out,Not bad <Name> is in the bath. That's great to hear, I reckon you'll do fine you were cramming like a mad thing,OMG it was as so cute Nicole (little girl with curly hair) was like "bye Francis, I'll miss you! " and gave him a big hug and handed him his backpack when we were leaving.,<Name> was like "BYE!",It was so nice they gave each other a bug hug,Me and the educator were like, \ude0d\ude0d\ude0d\ude0d\ude0d,Good luck bb,OMG,your bizarro tin,twin,Yeah go for it. I'm going to finish this reflection and then get an earl night,Can you get me some chicken soup in the bag and some savoys?,Bonzolrola,I'm so glad!!,Oooh fancy,How much?,poop,lol,fbnb,?,Soz had to go pick up this sampler Thang. Getting the bus home now.,Timothy Webb083-202948053932thanks heaps,see u in 4 weeks or if earlier let me know if it gets too long",""""""""""""""" "when u want watch,kk,set it up bb,We getting back paid rent assistance?,\ude02\ude02\ude02\ude02\ude02\ude02,Jesus,Fucking hell,Haha, finally got a sympathetic Centrelink worker,Well we can pay back Carol,\udc4c\udc4c\udc4c\udc4c\udc4c,   ",Yas,Yeah can you grab some snax and some wraps + milk and cheese if you go by the shoppos?,NICE!,Fuckin kicking goals,Good call short paul,Okay no worries. I'll grab a tramolo,nice juan,cool that sounds nice,   "   "   "   "Cool I'm heading off now. What do you want to do?,Okay cool I'll be a while on the bus xx,I'm near a coles now so can grab some stuff,Bread, milk, coffee and something for dinner. Maybe chicken schnitzel rolls?,Might get at uber so the chicken doesn't go off,Haha,Otherwise 4.10 train then 4.48 bus,Hey what you up to?,Cool want me to wait around for you?,Kool Thang,Kool slams I'll hang around building 10 and get some lunch,Okay cool where are you? I'm in 80,On my way home now, you awake?,Yeah boii,Ehh, in an uber,Maybe?,What u want if I do go?,Okay I'll ask lok,   ",Yo if you are near sushi hub near co=les can you get me California RollSpicy Chicken and Avo& a spicy tuna roll?,Ps where is the personal portfolio?,You still coming in or should I just come home?,Hahaha,No rush. Could make a nice lunch at home if we go to the supermarket,Down to chill,Plus we can smoke and will be cheaper,this is you,It almost gave me a cardiac,going to trawl that subreddit now thanx,youre a dummo,You mind if I have a fag? When is your mum coming round? We should go down the shops and get some bread and milk. Did you need me to do that or can you do it?,I'M NOT!,Okay thanks,Nice one,I'm making an awesome point and you should be impressed at my ingenuity,ahaha,maybe we could get her a blanket and then wet it,sponge scourersspongesgarbage bagsmilkNO SNAX,NOT AVO,hows it going?,OMG what is going on with him at the moment?,,Almonds,Butter,Nutrition grain,I'm asleep,Fresh flatbreadDips hummus eggplant Cold deli meatsCrackers?WaterYummy treetz,Paper plates please","" "Should send this to Lauren lol,This is u lol,Milk - 4l?UHT MalkFrank spare undies?Chicken/SteakSalad LeavesCherry GumatoesWrapsButter,Intentional?,   "   "   "[ ] Margarine[ ] Salad leaves[ ] Mayo[ ] Meat (sausages bulk) and chicken/steak?[ ] Potty from target[ ] Veggies (frozen/fresh) potatoes [ ] Milk[ ] Cereals[ ] Coffee[ ] Bread[ ] Cheese[ ] Yogurts[ ],   "*edit: for those of you who are interested in eating apples when they are picked, in Australia you should buy: January for Red Delicious, February for Royal Gala, March for Granny Smith, April for Fuji, & May for Pink Lady and Sundowner. We sell almost no apples in winter, and yet at the start of summer when they're 6+ months old they finally start to sell.,Cough cough christmas present cough,Cough cough","" "butter,vegemite,cold meats,wraps,salad leaves,cherry gumatoes,inevitable snax (we deserve),fruit for franno,DINNERSCHICKEN & VEG,STEAK AND VEG,CHICKEN WRAPS,Bulk chickenSteak LettuceEggsButterMilks BreadCroissants Sandwich Meats (get a bit as we'll be eating it for lunches all week)PicklesHoneyYogurts (just a few)WrapsVEGETABLESBeansPotatoes (1kg)PumpkinOther vegetables of your choosing Tiny TeddiesAlmondsCrackersNutri GrainFrootWhatever else you feel like buying within reason,Chicken Nuggets,Healthy frozen meals for us if on special,You asleep?,Yeah I thought you were going shopping,Okay sorry kiscommi,Miscommunication,Fuck sorry,I would have left them for you. I thought you were going to sparkly bear or something,I'm coming home now will pick up <Name> if you need me to as well,Haha you can do it!!!!,Kitty cat meat,Thank you for doing the shopping,Good job,You're a kind lady,<Name> missed a video chat with you.,On train now. Should get in round 5,At essendon,Oh well he is very clean,,,,kkk,U want fag,Ooahahaha,Both forms of communication,Okay meet outside in 2 minutes,Okay now","" "\u25cf\tSponges\u25cf\tCrackers\u25cf\tWipes\u25cf\tSalad Leaves\u25cf\tCold Meats\u25cf\tWraps\u25cf\tBread\u25cf\tMilk\u25cf\tButter\u25cf\tFrozen Corn\u25cf\tPotatoes\u25cf\tLemons/lemon juice\u25cf\tChicken\u25cf\tGarlic\u25cf\tSteaks\u25cf\tMagic Beans\u25cf\tNutri Grain\u25cf\tBacon\u25cf\tAvocado Possibly,   "   "Electro Harmonix 2880Pigtronix InfinityBoomerang IIIBoss RC-50,fuge?,Small or large?,   "   "No sorry, whats up?,Uhh whenever ya want. Me and <Name> are just relaxing. Bring me home some leftovers from yesterdayif there are any and you can stay as long as u want ;),Haha true I do feel somewhat strange giving advice seeing as I don't really have it all figured out,   "Deal with it,   "Its like 46cm wide by 28cm high,46 x 28,thats the max though,ayayyayayay,need anything else? going to do the dishes so will be afk,How u Doon,Grabbing the bus from northcote now. I'll be back home when you and franbo get back.,Cute,\udca1\udcf7\ude97\ud83c\udf46\ud83c\udf47\ud83c\udf4f\ud83c\udf68\ud83c\udf68\ud83c\udf68\ud83c\udf6c\ud83c\udf69\ud83c\udf6a\u2615,\ud83c\udf60\ud83c\udf54\ud83c\udf5e\ud83c\udf5d\ud83c\udf5d\ud83c\udf5c\ud83c\udf52\udc1d\udc1d\udcfc\udc19","""""""""" "   "  " "   "   "   "thats fine,poops,awesome dont forget milk plz,you want I get coffees?,you want I get undies for our son?,Nah I'm on my way into the citay,Gotta meeting at 11,Yah,Woah nice,I thought you'd have to go into the women's,You OK?,On my way home now lovey,You're a dings,Hey sorry but I don't really wanna walk home from the station its super hot hence why I was like "what time were you thinking specifically". I can get the bus if its a hassle just don't wanna walk.,oh okay that's why the nanny was like ten times louder than your voice,was really unsettling. I thought you were hanging out with some charming British dude and dramatic highly strung jewish lady,I was like oh no she's having a cool party without me,:(,that would rule,real life laugh track,all my dad jokes wouldn't go unappreciated,owchie,I haven't gotten shit done today,my brain don't work good,Kool will do bb.,Will set reminder in my fone,haha,hows it going?,Haha good idea,Jaydens coming to rmit to sit in aircon,I've been all for station wagons since day 1. As long as we can get a roomy one which is a bit higher off the ground than a holden then I think you'd be happy with it,For the most part better fuel consumption as well I think,You reckon I can do something for my birthday? Like have drinks somewhere at night with some friends?,Haha I already got plans for your bday baby dont worry,was just thinkign about what I wanted to do,Not mutaully exclusive lol,what do you want to do?,cool sounds good,I wont drink too much and will keep in contact with you,yup, on the 4th,and starting uni that week,when it rains it pours love,k,hey babe if you go past coles can you grab some more rolls for burgers tonight?,grab treetz,good,right amoutn of treats,ps out internet speed doubled today for some reason,yeah its up to 4mps from 2,mbps,can finally watch youtubes in 720 lol,So I'm going to the gallery to pick up the keys at 5.30 then I have to hang around for an hour or two to meet up with the artists and figure out how we're going to use the space. I probably wont be home til <Name> is in bed. Cathy is coming round at 2.30 to watch <Name> but not sure if she is going over to see mary later on. Do you want me to ask <Name>to come round to help put <Name> to bed and with dinner and stuff?,Okay great. Was worried you'd be tired from work and having to do it on your own.,Unmmmmmm .,I think there's some behind the big piece of sheet metal propped up against the BBQ,What?,Oh fartrrrkk,Sorry,Is there some in the medicine box? Or in the blue bowl on top of the shelves in the kitchen. Or on top of the fridge under some junk,I'm getting the tram now,Yay,Was a good meeting. The rest of the week will go fairly smooth I think,I'm so hangry though,Hello, please I can have a bagel? Aunty Helen yes. Hello who's there.,,yup,aiting for ya,waiting for ya,Ha cute,I'm on my way home BTW,Oh OK I was like why you send thst,oh no!,okay sounds good,want stirfry for dins?,so its not worth it? Wont make it if neither you or <Name> will eat it. We can jsut have sandwiches or something for dins.,Ur cool,Lol jk,Not,,   "Interesting,If somewhat loaded,More than 60 percent start at work,Couples retreats and Online Couples TherapyYOU ARE HERE: HOME \u00bb BLOG \u00bbINFIDELITY / AFFAIRS \u00bb EMOTIONAL AFFAIRSEmotional AffairsJanuary 5, 2017 / Infidelity / Affairs / By Daniel Dashnaw / 3 COMMENTSWhat are Emotional Affairs?An emotional affair (EA) is more than a state of being \u201cJust friends.\u201d While it can be an elusive and subjective experience, emotional affairs are a common presenting problem that we often work on in an intensive couples retreat. Research has helped therapists to understand the arc of how emotional affairs begin, and how they gain traction and momentum.Emotional affairs are friendships that willingly harness the strong headwinds of sexual attraction, eventually sweeping away appropriate relational boundaries and transparency. Research has helped clinicians to understand the arc of how emotional affairs begin, and how they gain traction and momentum.emotional affairsIt Starts Like This\u2026.Your EA partner may begin to complain about her husband. You listen gallantly and sympathetically. She compliments you on what a \u201cgood listener\u201d you are. She continues to lavish you with kindness and praise, and you listen even more sympathetically to her tale of woe. Eventually, perhaps out of a sense of self-consciousness, the need for reciprocity kicks in. she calls attention to the imbalance of the relationship.\u201cAnd what about you?\u201d she asks.Gradually, you find yourself complaining about your wife. Your co-worker shows increasing levels of kindness and understanding. This pattern of self-disclosure and mutual support continues and deepens over time. Eventually your significant other becomes.. well, less significant.Then you begin to notice an emotional shift. You start to look forward to seeing your EA partner at work. They eventually inhabit your heart and monopolize your attention. You compare and contrast. You fantasize. You show increased impatience and annoyance to your wife. The riptide of an emotional affair is now well underway, pulling you away from your partner with great emotional force.The Epidemic of Emotional AffairsResearch from the American Association of Marriage and Family Therapy (AAMFT) reveals the extent of the problem. About 45% of men and 35% of women have reported being drawn into an emotional affair at some point. Unless it is admitted, the vast majority of emotional affairs are never disclosed. Men, in particular, are quick to hide behind the \u201cI did not have sex with that woman\u201d defense. Emotional cheating does not register as cheating with men because of the lack of consummation.Paradoxically, in a recent survey, 88% of women reported that they were far more concerned about their husband being emotionally unfaithful than just having sex outside the marriage. That's twice as high as men who were asked the same question. So it's not just defensiveness on the part of men. This is a clear gender difference. Women care twice as much about their partners falling into emotional affairs than men do.Ground Zero for Emotional AffairsWhere is ground zero for emotional affairs? That's easy\u2026the workplace.More than 60% of emotional affairs begin at work. Most emotional affairs begin with someone you already know from work, or at work. Men are particularly vulnerable because they do not recognize the warning signs of boundary violations, and they also tend to be more comfortable wand<Name>g alone in the garden of their own private thoughts and fantasies. Men are often unprepared for emotional affairs. They do not understand the risks. A recent study shows that 68% of men never thought they would be swept up into an emotional affair, and almost all men who become emotionally entangled with a co-worker wish that they hadn't.emotional affairsResearch on Emotional AffairsIt's a popular and inaccurate notion, (especially among poorly trained all-purpose-therapists), that an emotional affair is clear and compelling evidence of a serious underlying deficit in your relationship. Research shows that while this notion might feel obvious, the truth, (as are many truths in research-driven couples therapy), is far more complex and counter-intuitive.I am not convinced that the relationship health is exclusively the culprit. Or even a reliable determining factor.Take women for example. While 66% of women involved in emotional affairs described themselves as unhappy in marriage, a huge 34% described themselves as happy or very happy with their partner when the emotional affair began.While 48% of men report emotional dissatisfaction as the main reason they were swept into an emotional affair, the majority of them (52%) had no pressing emotional complaints against their partner. A recent survey reports that 66% of men feel guilty about their emotional affair. And another recent study reports that 56% of men surveyed were happy in their marriage when they began an emotional affair. But as Esther Perel points out, there is a difference between feeling guilt for how your p,Whoops accidentally copied whole page,Was trying to post this: Regardless of gender, the more money a partner brings home in relation to their spouse, the more likely they are to engage in an emotional affair. The reverse, paradoxically, is also true for men. The more they lag behind, or outstrip their wives income, the greater the chance on infidelity. But when their incomes are roughly equal, the likelihood of infidelity declines.Clinicians see this as evidence of a possible work/life imbalance. Perhaps, in some cases, complicated by an abiding sense of narcissistic entitlement. Research also tells us that your personal intimacy report card is also an important risk factor,Yeah you especially. needa be careful from what I've read. Clear boundaries and real consequences if we cross them. I don't want us having emotional affairs really. We should stop it before either gets to hat place into cause it can be super damaging to a relationship. Also can be symptomatic of a life change or of there being unaddressed problems in a home relationship,I think they said it best when they were like: one of the prime motivations for being so excited about this oe eon is there is no conflict, no arguments, no regard decisions you have to make with them. You get to relive the earliest days of your life r relationship with that other person, but like you said all relationships kind of end up looking the same after a couple of years,*hard,You miss having uncomplicated intimacy with someone, even if that is not sexual,And when your intimacy with me is so wound up being n the past and in all the other shit we have going on together and with our roles as parents and stuff, it's really complex and seems like too much work,Like you feel like you are starting a new chapter in your life why can't everything be new as well,I think they are being a bit harsh when they are like "feelings of narccissistic entitlement" can lead to a want for an emoitonal affair, but definiteiyl somewhere in your mind you are probably thinking "well, I am going out and earning money and working on my career, why shouldn't I be able to have intimacy with someone more on my level emoitionally right now, I'm too tired to bridge the gap with LIam",I know I sent you and email back you dingus,hey hey, fuck yeah, every time I pick up an instrument, how you doin?,har har, feeling th same, got my own little studio happenin here,rapidly acquiring junk,totally, you always knew the score,sure thing, seeya round,Hey Keith how ya doing? I just wanted to ask you how you went about presenting your work for the grad show? I've got a work that needs two screens playing simultaneously with two separate audio tracks and am just figuring out how to put it together in a gallery space.,Fantastic! Thank you. I'll email and ask about them.,okay cool I'll dig up her email and see if I can get in contact. You planning on doing honours this year?,nice one! Are you expanding on themes or heading in a  new direction this year?,haha always good to do,Hey will, can you ask alex what model the bike is and I can check out insurance options,deoes he have a helmet?,Cheers sonny,cool sonny,man, ill have to get a hang of the manual gear changes and stuff, if I get it ill go on a few rides with you in a carpark or something first!,I can't get the bike, my mum went actually crazy the other night when I told her about it, cause <name> used to get into motorcycle crashes all the time and stuff and a few of their friends died in motorcycle accidents, She said that I'm not allowed to bring a motorbike into the house, and that she would be worrying all the time about me on the road. I'm really sorry man, I know its really short notice, but I really can't get past her at the moment, its a really big deal with her for some reason, I think I'll just save up and buy a car to be honest. I feel really bad, I mean, its quite a big risk and whatnot, and I'd rather have my own bike to start off with just so I know that it is fully my responsibility and I don't have another person hanging over my head when I am riding it. I really appreciate all of the trouble you've gone to and stuff and I'm really sorry dude, I feel really bad, and I really owe you one in future.Liamp.s if you want just give me alex's number and I'll tell him, if he's gunna get mad or whatever might as well let him get  mad at me yeah?,SDADS,hey willum, hows things??,Pretty damn slammin,how was it?,coulda stayed longer begging on the street,yeah good call,yeah lots or british backpackers do it here har har,uhh not too much, just been getting ready to start uni again next month and crap,all that administrative shit,yeah but ya know, might as well finish off the bitch now,might give the skills i need to convince centrelink for the maximum payment,so what are you planning to do now?,well you gotta chase thedramsman,otivation,is,motivation is so hard to find nowadays,hey willie nelson, whassappenin?,not too damn much just trying to get my bus lines working in imutrans,goddamn bastards couldnt turn a profit if they tried,gday mayte,not in the shower I hope,yr damn straight bud, getta some beera,hows your shedje?,no idea, might be slammin my woman,WEll geez it hasnt changed bud,Still shackled by the ass of opression,hey bruv, whatuv?,we should go play pool sometime,shitcargas,oh well, throw off the shackles of feminine opression,ahh, nostalgic times,I dont think they even show that h20 show anymore,and the little mermaid,I forgot you two came as a package deal,its surprising that having a car makes you later,and you coulda come by yourself,we didnt really invite szanto,ya know, its cool if he shows, but you cant really use it as an excuse that you were driving him around, cause we didnt even know he was comin,but its cool, no skin off our nose, matt probably wouldnt have gotlet into the rsl,I dunno, call if you wanna discuss something, texting is shitey,I dont care, relax,wasnt really a big deal,well it didnt end up happening,MATE,s the old group remains the old group,I didnt not want to see him, I just didnt want him holding up the works,which you admitted he did,so you know, id rather have just seen you than to see none of you,ya know?,we were there for like 3 hours,but who gives a shit,thats past now,try again another sunday,eh?,well thats why sunday inda pissed me off ya know, cause I hadnt seen you in like a year, and you just did that same old thing where you make everyone wait around for you,come on, you've always been like that, like you text and shit but you dont really show up until like hours after the plans have been made,it wasnt a big deal though cause we just had a relaxed day shootin pool and shit, but you know, you always have a million fuckin things to do,sunday,I dont have grudges, just dont assume your time is more valuable than everyone elses,then we're cool,anyway, I dont mean to have a go at you anyway, I dont care,its cool,anyway who gives a shit, you're right, that shit was years ago,I dont have a grudge against you or anything,relax, dont worry about it,Alright, well next time I do something that is characteristic of a fault that I havem you have fair trial to give me shit about it,yeah and friends also give you shit sometimes, thats the way it is,but I'll admit that was a fucked up thing to say, and I'm pretty sure I talked to ace about it and corrected it,but that was ages ago, and I was just talking about sunday,I mean, I didnt do that on sunday,me and ace talked about it, and I knew you were pissed about it,you coulda said something about it,and you proved me wrong anyway,well you could've I knew it was a fucked up thing to say,I wouldnt have stopped being friends with you if you called me up on it,and I'm not going to now,and I apologized to ace when she brought it up,cause I had the conversation with her, but I didnt know you knew about it,well I didnt know that, she mighta not told you,I cant predict that,so I apologized to her, cause I had a conversation with her, I said I was wrong and to disregard the comment,so I gotta run,later,hey broseph, whats going on,AH ya know, one day at a time, still hurts a bit but ya know, I can walk around and shit. Just no dancin',Hm.. probably have to stay at a house with ready access to pillows and ice cream ya know, but ion a couple of weeks I shoul dbe able to do anythign I want. Even dance and sing and run around the town.,fuckin yeah,Hey man, yeah I remember that day. Good times. What are you up to nowadays man?,Hey hey woah, that old chestnut. did those speakers still work? anyway, i might grab it so that I can make quiet things sound louder. I'm pretty good man, just drudging away at a a call center and drinking too little, hows shit for you?,Good call man, play catch up. I'm in Brunswick so can meet ya in the city one day if ya want.,yeah sure man, sounds good. Hows it going?,Hey Will, thanks a lot man, everything helps at the moment. Its a pretty hard time and he was still only 59. Cancer is the fucking worst. Shouting out the car and being brats and stuff, he always tolerated that for some reason. He loved driving round.,That's right I forgot about Bill being sucks. Yeah we should catch up soon for sure. <Name> would love to meet ya. Thanks for ya kind memories. It's kinda hard to remember the little things at the moment so it really helps. Catch ya soon matey.,Hey man was hooked up not to see ya at <name>'s drinks tonight. Let's catch up soon eh. Xx,Looking forward to***,Had a few pintos,Haha, yeah <name> said you were <Name> Greece doing search and rescue? Let's catch up when ya get back then ey?,Cool man. Hit me up when you're back and we'll hang out. Come meet <Name>!,Hey Lloyd, pretty sure we may have met a few times briefly at gigs. I play in Savage nobles and solo as VLF.,The cold light of day has had me forget many a face, so no trouble.,Hey mate, interested in the Midiverb if its still available. When's a good time for pickup?,,Hey Russell, how ya doing bud? While in an insomniac reverie I'm pretty sure I remembered that you sent me a really lovely message to congratulate me on <Name>'s birth. I actually intended to reply to you at the time but those couple of weeks were the most insane and psychologically taxing of my life and I forgot. I'm really sorry about that. I can't remember what you sent but I remember it being really heartfelt and awesome and I feel horrible about not replying promptly. Then again, we are both probably used to years without contact by now.  So how are you? What do ya do with yourself nowadays? Hows the fam etc? Did you finish your degree? Do you still exist when I close my eyes? Please don't dismiss this as an episode of shameless nostalgia on my part. Actually interested in what's going on with you.,Haha, guess we both are prone to little bit of a trip down memory lane now and again. My people are good, <Name> is 15 months old now and saying words and crawling around being a toddler and generally driving me mad. I'm doing fine arts (sound) at RMIT and playing shows around melb-town and building synthesizers in my spare time.,Hey Russ, thanks for your order. Ill ship your tape tomorrow fo sho.,Thanks bud. I hold a similar desire for survival.,Hey hey hey, so interested in those daphon pedals for a trade. I'm a musician/sound artist/synth builder so can make cables, trade some audio gear etc. can usually do electronics repairs as well. Anything I might be able to do for you?,That sounds ace. Definitely do a door spot. I'm your man for future repairs too. Happy to pick up whenever is good for ya!,Also thanks a lot! Good karma coming your way for sure!,Aww, looking after my 18 month old bub today so mightn't be able to get away unfortunately. Can definitely do a tomorrow or Sunday at some point though if that suits?,Pascoe vale south but I don't drive so would probably bike over! Not too far!,Oh really? That'd be great! Yeah pretty sure it's uphill the whole way, which I'm am probably able to do but possibly not crazy about doing. Pretty sure we're home all day Saturday and Sunday.,,Hey yeah I remember. I'm pretty snowed under with uni stuff this week but might be able to help ya out next week.,Hey hey yeah sure thing. I'm hanging round the city Monday and Wednesday next week probs if ya wanna come meet me and I can take a look. No guarantees I can fix em but happy to give it a shot.,Hey, what price point were you thinking for the EMU? Looks perfect!,Hm, might be a bit outta my price range til I sell some stuff. If you were gunna chuck it up for sale go ahead but I can probably scrounge together some cash in the next week or so.,Cool, thanks mate. Will keep you in the loop.,Hey mate I'm interested in this mixer, is 100 bucks the best you can do on price? Cheers Liam,That sounds about right to me, so wasn't too noisy or crackly last time you used it?,Alright that sounds good, when are ya free usually? I can come by tomorrow during the day or Friday anytime,Sounds like Friday is the way to go then. When is good for you/whereabouts are you located?,Cool, I can do around midday for sure. Bout 15 minutes from my place so no worries. Will let ya know if something comes up.,Fair call, talk then!,Hey bud, whats your address? should be by around midday as planned if that's all good with you,Haha no stress I've been there. Yep I'll probably be there round 12:30 if that's alright.,Cool beans see ya soon then,Hey bud about 5 minutes away,Alright I think I'm out the front,Budd missed a video chat with you.,,Budd missed a video chat with you.,Hey man mixers going real good. Yeah it's called music gear but a and Australian synth buy swap sell, I'll link them to ya gimme a sec,Don't know how to link unfortunately you can just Facebook search them. Music Gear Nuts and Melbourne Synth Buy Sell Swap,Music gear nuts is the main one I see things on but synth buy sell swap also has good stuff too,No worries ebay and Gumtree can be pretty shite sometimes,Good luck mate,Oh yeah the product of all of this gear lust,,Heyo, can leave you a deposit or something if it comes to that and would be able to cover costs if need be but I'm usually pretty anal about gear in general so thats a pretty slim chance. Thanks for the offer! Hopefully I get through to someone from Uni or AV loans and will be moot anyway but if not I'll be in touch. I've already got a screen and can probably finagle a dvd/hard disk player from somewhere pretty easily. Which just leaves me needing one more screen possibly and a headphone amp and headphones.,Shit yeah that's great. Thanks, would be perfect. I'll see where my investigations take me and get back to you. I can hire out a couple of pairs of headphones from somewhere so no problems there.,Hey Tim Catlin got back to me and I can get everything I need from RMIT. Thanks heaps for the offer though! Should come down to the opening at <place> on the 9th if you got some time.,Oh cool yeah wouldn't want to have you digging through boxes uneccessarily.Here's the event which you might have already been ivited to? \   "Yeah man, if you do recording I'll chuck ya on the door?,I'll show ya how to use the thing beforehand,Like 9-9:20 if you can do it?,Skaz. I reckon you'll be into it.,Sick man see ya then.,<Name>wants to know if ya got feta and butter for sammiches.,Got a couple of fad gadget albums. Fucking right up me alley. Thanks for the hot tip.,No biggles, I've missed out on guys for less,Hey, it's <Name>. My phone died. <name> was fine, he's just lost a lot of weight. He looked better otherwise. Did you want to hang out tonight?,Hm, soz man. Will let ya know if I think of something.,My phone is dead, shock horror. Having a few beers with the Bucks crew. Would it be cool if I get to yours around 11? <Name>\u2764\ufe0f,Getting a keyboard case off your mate Luke from rough trade.,Gunna give him a bottle of curlewis wine and sixer for it. Apparently he's me lt <Name>too. Freaking weird,Met,That's a nice chair. Dude is bristling with prime possessions,So <Name>'s off on her hen's night and I ordered pizza, should I watch The Fly, or Crash?,hmm... maybe I'll flip a coin,might e able to watch both,fuck yeah. I'm getting the mood lighting happening.,fuck I forgot beer,I'll just slam some cold meds,hows the film night thing going?,sick as, how do you negotiate something like that. Just like DVDs or do ya have to get in touch with distribution guys and shit,haha, take that Hollywood,Australian's have had a love affair with pirating ever since they did that region specific bullshit to us,if they have to call you up and spruik it to you over your meat and potatoes, it must be shit,wish aus netflix was better,what was that site again? VPNgimminetflix.com?,cbffindingtorrentsandipayforthisshitalready.org,ooh yeah, I know what I'm doing for the next 13 days,yeah I was thinkign about watching a shaw bros kung fu or lone wolf and cub or something,too many choices!,one armed boxer vs the flying guillotine,fucking best,did she show you five deadly venoms as well?,man, that's the shit,its just you know, the cinematography and chacter development is really deep, that's why I love them,I was...,na love em coz of violence and shit sound effects and over the top dudes and rambling nonsensical storylines,never heard of it,sounds like the start of a joke,Watched the fly,So fricking good,Have you heard of snowy red?\   "Heck yes,Who'd ya get?,Coolslams. I'll look em up when I get home,I know fruit and nut and pure hit though,Pure hit is totally a better name,Frickin badass. Lemme know if ya need any help.,kewl looks good!,good job organizing btw,Hey gunna link spam you with some shit so watch out,Drum machine samples:    can just drag a folder into drum rack in ableton and itll fill it u for ya,Here is a good place to find cheapish synth stuff, ocassionally midi controllers and jazz pop up,cool there is more I can feel it coming,Cant find any cheap midi keyboards on ebay,friggin shite,Borrow my casio from <Name>and get some jeyboard practice at least?,nice,does it have midi?,porbs not,Some of em do, if ya see these on the back ya just need like a five dolar cable,save some 4444,$$$$,probs gotta save like 80 bucks for a decent midi keyboard unless you can get some seet roughtrade gumtree deal,   pretty good, we have these at skool,Hey does your keyboard take a USB cable like this?,Kool,I know, its better than my board ya bastard!,Can do buddy. Any night this week or day weekend I'm free as a boid,Sick,I'll give ya the Masterclass,U got laptop? Bring it if so,all good bring ya keyboard nad we'll plug it into my comp,Shitcheah. Remember you mentioning this one. Will spin tonight for sure does,Hey dude how old are your stat test resists. Apparently ya get 5 years,Results?,How do I connect to the open vpn thing?,Woods,Sick!,Thanks man,Hm, it's saying connection to USA failed,Apparently the password is wrong?,Oh yeah it's saying password failure,I'll figure it out tonight no stress,nope, my bad,ill try now,,Hey man thanks this whole life thing can pretty fucken relentlessly depressing sometimes. I'll check out comp later cheers,dang, tight,Gunna slam this tonight, thank 4 the tip,Man this proleteriat band is killing it, sounds like Gang of Four,sounds really english. On wikipedia says they are from masacchussets,fuck can never spell it,PS have you heard of Soulseekm its really good for finding out of print releasea and bootlegs and crap,its like napster for obscure music nerds,   "haha, yeah I discovered it a couple of months ago. So frigging good,haha,oh shit I'm gunna check that,So voyeuristic,ps how do you know if you are sharing your collection as well?,sick,Nah I aint picky,yeah cool I shared everything,its addictiv but kinda trying to only use when something is genuinely outta print or I can't get it anywhere else,which is half the new shit I listen to anyway lawl,yeah youtube is great nowadays,fark treasures,I love the internet,no fuckign round with cassette tapes,youd be working down the mines,fuckin downing tins,scratched Cds in the car on the way to and back from work. JB Hifi on a saturday afternoon t,haha, yeah leading edge was the same in geebung. pretty sure I got my first LP from there, bowie reissue or something,didnt have a record player just thought it was a big CD,didnt work in my hifi though what a drag,speakers or it didnt happen,yeah they usually  have some shit,convince <Name>to take us on a trip,use wiles,use charm,take me too, I always need shit from there,I need some giant bales of copper wire and iron stakes,nah just for.. research,can;t fake it,no??,holy fuck does look good,sounds exploitationy,how have I not heard of this guy,man, I've got procrastination material for liek a week now,man, you are liek awealth of movie knowledge,the people deserve to know,you should be a consultant at acmi or something,just walk in there, and say "HEY, I'M IMPORTANT, QUIZ ME ON OBSCURE 1960s artfilms & exploitation NOW! ALSO A JOB THX",I'm gunna leave my synth and drum machine setup just in case you wanna have a play while you're over,Totally cool, fully encouraged. Ill show ya how to turn shit on tomorrow,Nah self interest want you to get into it so we can start a 80s industrial band 37 years too late,Hey man, when you were doing that cinema night what venues did you look at? Looking for a space to out on a video art/performance thing late rin the year.,Yes and yes. Bring ya desktop and keyboard if ya want can hook it up to my TV or something. I'm on holidays so whenever is cool,Cool banamas,username: s3589549password: Fender5trat1,   "   "In Bg2?,Lol soz no context,  <name> is mage fighter and I am thief fighter so need hp sponge so we can own,I'll let ya know in more detail when I get home,Possibly playing tonight,I think it's largehardoncollider,Lol will add you when i get home,We're Sposed to be getting nbn in a month or so so gunna do it then rather than frustrate myself with slow internet,About fucking time,Haha,How is ya ableton stuff going?,Good work mannn,Got these drum samples ready for ya next time I see ya too,All the sweet nugs,Added u on steam,Yo apparently you can just copy the game files from one computer to another and steam will recognise the files and just add your account to it by replacing the dll or something. So I was thinking since you already DLed the Witcher III and I bought it on steam maybe I could get the game files off you and then register them on my computer as opposed to waiting the 5 days or whatever it would take to DL them? Can trade for drum samples/provide hard drive.,Sick. I got one u can borrow if need be,sick man no rush lol,man, I discovered steam home streaming been playing games on my couch,now I can appear social by being in the same room as <Name> but actually jsut be shooting mutants and shit,best of both worlds,fuck games are huge nowadays,back in my day you could fit a whole months entertainment on a single floppy disk,these damn younguns,Dude heard ya had a bad ol' dole day. Fuck the haters, you're definitely better than a chicken shop in laverton man.Kep yer chin up,Although free chicken,<Name>said it was in laverton. Coburg is a different story,Wow they pay pretty well at chicken shops nowadays,maybe I'll apply,Just get an oil burn on the first day and get that sweet workers comp,Why the fuck was the interview in laverton?,Is that like corporate chicken shop headquarters,Ugh, the damn red tape. Back in the day you wanted a job at a chicken shop you jsut hung around there til they let you behind the counter,Laverton is a frickin hole,Anyway gotta put <Name> in bath. Take it easy man, seeya roudn,PS social research centre is recruiting for realsies at the moment. Hiring heaps of n00bs get on it if ya want.,Heard it from my friend <name> who works there,That's cool, it's a real good job! Also what movie should I watch tonight?,I dunno I watched crash and assault in precinct 13 last night. 70s synths soundtracks are my jam at the moment. Exploitation?,I'll look it up,whao I think you were telling me about Kodi last time I saw you.,holy shit how am I not using this. I was using sockshare like a turkey,alright downloading now,alrighty will gogole,shit yeah gunna fiddle around with this. Kodi is still downloading coz internet,meh, see how I go. I tend to be able to stream from gorillavid and stuff pretty well. Downloading exodus now. How do I add <Name>?,oh lol before you aid has <Name>got you on kodi,which I took to mean we could add each other and share movies and shit,yeah cool, I think exodus is a bit fucky atm but managed to install it,well I am waiting for it to install,okay cool installed,see you in 10 days,sick as. I'll get it off her next time I see her. Got a usb full of drumsamps for ya too,Woah looks good will have to check it oot,thanks man,Nah she didn't,Yeah totally man, I'm at uni wed thurs fri but jsut bangin round home most of the rest of the time,The same guy who wrote that note?,Fuckin crazy,Kitchen knife?,Fuckin hell, that dude is a disease,Possibly could be because general racism  bigotry and fear has made muslim communities stick together,Why?,Ugh,Sex tourism,What a shit stain,Find out his email and sign him up to like every shit spam site,play the long game,Ooh yeah baby Witcher 3 worked. Went from 50gb download to like 200mb of updates,Thanks so much for feeding my rpg addiction,Daaaang, might jump on. Got mid semester break next week hehe,Hows work going?,Buying now,Hey buddy, do ya reckon you could copy the game files for bios hock infinite to s hard drive if you have one or I can give ya mine tomorrow?,Haha no stress. I'll just do it at night,I agree. Not the greatest people to work with. I'll message her tonight. She'll be able to get a new hospo job easy as,No worries she need to get outta there,Course man, what do you want me to say?,Cool, will lie real good for ya,Yo do you still have your old graphics card?,totally man. what model is it so I can google compatibility,sick, I'll see whether itll work with my motherboard. Might as well grab it off you then huck it in and see how it goes anyway. Couldn't hurt lol,Yeah I'm pretty sure it does work. There's a few people on the dell forusm saying it did work and some saying it didnt but one guy who said it didnt jus thadnt plugged in the power lol.  Maybe I'll grab those parts off you and see if I can kludge together.,phoo maybe I'll get that ram off you coz its probs better than my stock dell ram anyway,been doing video editing on the desktop too so could use more GPU power,trying to do software rend<Name>g and it takes like an hour every time I change color correction lol,cool are you home today? We're ging to northlands so might drop by on the way,PS comparison of my current card with your old one lol\   "cool. I'll let ya know when we're close,Yeah man if that's cool,Cool I'm outside now,Might have to get that motherboard off you. Turns out Dell locked up their bios with a gpu whitelisy that doesn't work with anything past 2011 haha,oh acutally <Name> has not given me permission to change motherboard,haha,oh well I'll save up and buy a compatible card,Yeah and some random select cards with similar chipsets etc. Might just build myself a decent pc if I ever get some cash coz <Name>'s a bit thingy about me opening it up and stuff,Sick! Yeah I might do that actually,what model is the CPU?,sick as. I'm gunna put em all in pc part picker and see what I need,Man thats only like 300 bucks.,And would probs be a pretty solid system,Haha no thanks heaps I haven't built a PC before so don't relaly know,Maybe if I get the shit you can come round and help me put it together too,will buy ya some beers,Yeah just plugging stuff into other stuff,Hm.. Ill look into it. Maybe for my birthday I'll get some cash and buy a case and stuff. Wouldn't mind a machine that I could upgrade when I wanted to haha,haha yeah I know slippery slope,man this facebook group is good though. Way cheapert than stores,haha. That happens everytimg I buy something,alright gunna stop looking at stuff or I'll spend money I don't have,lol then again I maybe I could just buy an nvidia card which is compatible with my dell motherboard as opposed to building a whole new computer,Dunno. I think only certain ones,1050 works apparently,Yeah I'll maybe buy that one once I Ave some extra cash. I think Nvidia are better for video editing anyway coz they have Cuda processing which speed up rend<Name>g and junk,Amd are generally cheaper though right?,Woah cheap as shit,Amd is competitive as,Hey mate I'm interested in the focusrite can pop by and pick up today if you want. Cheers,dang! Have a good one,Yeah, flying solo for now. I love that fm stuff, got myself a YS200 which is the keyboard version of the tx81z.  80s tight pants sounds for sure. Ill ruminate on who else might be into it but will get back to ya on that. Thanks for getting back to me!,Boss! Yeah my networks are pretty limited, just kinda starting out with solo stuff so i can open. Ill check out those guys. Cheers for that matey, super keen to play whenever.,By the way, checked out your website and stuff and I'm super impressed.  Aesthetics and ideas are really on point. Really refreshing to see someone who takes their creativity seriously.,I reckon its usually more important to be resolute and have an idea and commit to it however uncompromising rather than try to pander to people's ever-changing tastes, or try to to too many things at once and dilute any ideas you initially had. Usually don't throw out compliments that much but was genuinely impressed. Can tell you've thought through all the aspects thoroughly.,Hey mate, how ya doin? Ya hear back anything from that booker?,Hey man thats cool, I caught some exotic disease which  leada to uncontrollable coughing fits so not the best fit for stage performance the last week or so. yeah public bar changed its name to Last Chance or something? Weirdly ominous name. Did they sell the old bar too? Sounds good man, we'll see if they get back to us and go from there.,Sounds great, count me in bud!,Pretty sure I'm free those nights. No probs.,Ace, so Me, you, sissysocks at Bar Open May 11th?,Cool man, lemme know and I'll do some pluggin,Hm, premium fantasy might wanna have a go of it? If you wanted to headline we could get <name>? Will send links when I'm home,Possibly <name> as well, they are great and really nice kids,Would probably have to reshuffle line up,My friend <Name> is in Premium Fantasy so Ill message him too if you're keen,<Name> from Premium Fantasy is checking with his partner in crime. Waiting to hear back on that. Could probably get <name> to play as well if you were down with that.,Not yet, will get on their asses tonight. <Name> can be a little flakey sometimes.,Haha, yeah, probably avoid pulling the Tx card. I messaged <Name>, if he doesn't get back in a couple of hours I'll check with <name>. <name> is really good too for an opener. Or <name>. I can message them all if we really need someone. I just though PF would be probably the most similar vibe to our stuff.,*ex card,<Name> has completely flaked on me and hasn't replied. I messaged <name> and <name> from <name> to see if they might wanna play, will keep ya posted.,that's cool, I have a pretty low tolerance for people flaking out on shows so usually hounding is a natural process.,Not yet. People suck.,oh yeah avoid can't play already have a gig that night,<name> got back to me she's just checking her schedule but sounds keen. Nope, playing as "VLF", <name> is my other band.,Fair enough, need to get some acts together! Not for lack of trying but people just suck at getting back to me.,Story of my life. If ya don't approach shit like a professional how can you expect to be treated like one?,I'll let ya know when I hear something. Just give em you me and TBA if they're on your ass about it.,Hey yeah, still hasn't got back to me so I don't reckon she's free. If your friend is into it then go ahead.,Sorry about all the rigmarole by the way, shitty luck with people getting back to me.,Poster's looking great, will invite some peeps but ya got "FLV" instead of "VLF" on the poster itself.,Was thinking of some flash animation based multimedia show when I saw it.,Cool beans, otherwise looks ace! Thanks for putting it together.,Sweet! Thanks!,Hey <Name> any idea of set times for Wednesday night? Should be a blaster. PS congrats on coming out if it's cool for me to say!,Cut it down to 20-25 then?,See how we go. Are you sound checking?,Haha, likewise. Think everyone played a decent show too. Turnout could of been better but what can ya do? Should set up another sometime. Grace darling basement might be good?,Yeah, fuck that pay to play stuff, hence the basement. I asked <name> and they were into it. Could be possible headliners. They are in for the middle of June if you can do it.,Can you do 9th June? Thursday night at the grave darling basement.,Cool I'll check with Avoid,Do you reckon you'll do visuals for this next gig? Would love to get on board and do some projections for the other acts,Cool, figured as much. I'll bring a dvd then!,   "Yeah I can probably do that. What's the lineup so far?,yup, pencil me in, just gotta make sure I'm not on toddler duty that night,Not sure, pretty sure my partner might have work is all. I can probably do it but I'll find out next week for sure?,Yeah count me in I'll figure out a sitter! In for sure.,Nostalgia trip eh? Sounds ace,Urgh my partner got her work shifts and turns out I am on toddler duty and no one can babysit. Literally everyone is busy that night so I don't think I'll be able to play. Feel shit for cancelling out on you, I can try and find someone to play instead of you want?,Could ask my mate <Name>who opened for us at the gracement. I'll ask around now.,Oh yeah she mentioned you dropped by! How ya doing? Always shamelessly promoting me. Been on a bit of a live show hiatus and trying to get back on the horse with a new setup so definitely down to play a show whenever ya need. Opening slot would be advantageous. Full hardware setup=1200% more variables which are likely to explode in my face.,Geez, sounds like a rough one. I can defs commiserate on the existential crisis front though. Isn't that a rite of passage for artists? Looks like you've been playing heaps of shows though and not getting overwhelmed which is a plus. Have yet to see you play some new stuff as I've had my hands full with the wonderful yet isolating stay at home dad life. I've been trying this whole shift from conceptual process based art to more autobiographical works, which is definitely a pandoras box emotionally. Just wanted to say, I Different circumstances but I definitely experienced my fair share of bullying and physical violence at the hands of ignorant, cruel people when I was younger. Was touched by your stories as they brought up similar vulnerablities for me.,Definitely. Was thinking maybe we could get coffee or something? Talk art and life and stuff if you're interested. Share production tips/nerd out/strategize. No pressure though,I  got Thursday afternoon pretty much free? Or possibly sometime tomorrow afternoon? How's your week?,Cool bananz. Got class til 1 but after that free as a bird. Somewhere in the city or north?,Alrighty maybe someplace on Sydney rd? I'm terrible at choosing places,Good call. Definitely know where that is? Well I finish class at 1. Hows 1.30ish?,Accidental question mark,wasn't questioning whether you know where Greens is ha,Haha yeah no worries. Was gunna ask you the same thing, got a meeting at 12.30 so woulda been pushing it. Let's work out a day next week maybe?,Yeah I can do Thursday afternoon round 2ish, greens?,cool, see ya there!,Still up for a coffee today?,CoOoOl. See ya at greens round 2ish!,Okie doke. I'm still on the tram (Albert St.) so no rush.,I'm here, gunna grab a set out the back.,Seat,PS have had dexys before at parties and stuff and they always made me super speedy so 99.9589% sure I don't have ADHD. Didint mention coz you seemed super into the idea haha. Thanks anyway though, I think depression, anxiety and ADHD can share symptoms sometimes AFAIK. PPS thanx for the lift.,Bit of the ol' pareidolia. Comes with big life changes I think, you've spent a long time identifying these cycles/routines you go through yourself so you see them in people and wanna help them. I think partly so they don't have to go through all the shit you had to to gain self awareness about those aspects of yourself. Or something like that. My report cards were all "He is a distraction to himself and others" or "If he only applied himself he would be a good student but he is punk af so what we do??? B+\u00af\\_(\u30c4)_/\u00af",Sorry fuckin cray week. Taking a look at this now,Dang, stereo. Yeah like the pumping on the strings, adds to the rhythm rather than sitting over it,Yeah been getting more into the whole compression thing lately. My shitty behringer hardware comp is really useful for that,Had a crit for that less than zero song yesterday, and the dude was like "use more compression",Just gotta slam it up to compete with the other bangerz,Most songs nowadays just kind of signify quiet parts by removing layers anyway.,Might give that a shot actually,I just get freaked out when I up a track to soundcloud and its just a block,scares me,But I see what you mean, defs good to limit it for online distribution. Also listen to the song through macbook speakers and earbuds coz that's probs what peeps are listening through,Find the happy medium somewhere between completely destroyed and too quiet to hear,Production is so messy sometimes. I've been trying to keep it as simple as possible. Like drums, bass and vocals, eqed on my desk. Possibly chords or noise washes, then overdub later.,Damn plebs,Jesus I'm writing this song and it's turned into a kind of 80s power ballad,I'll send it through, would love an opinion on the mix?,   "Haha no rush consid<Name>g it took me like a week to get roudn to yours,Haha cool thanks. Yeah I'm using the haas effect for stereo wideness on hats. Lots of doubling with guitar and synth Been trying to use the stereo field a bit more to make room for more layers. Took your advice and slammed it all through compressor but maybe I could dial up the ratio a bit. Thinking about having it as second last track on EP and then coming right up in BPM for closer.,sure thang, what day were you thinking?,Home with me kid that day, I can do wednesday or thursday?,Colololol Lets do it,Heyo dunno if I can do today sorry, my partner is having a massive freakout about finishing uni in a couple of weeks and I'm on support staff today :(. Let me know when's good for you and I'll make some time next week maybe? Sorry for flaking.,Thanx. Frickin reality.,Would love to but I'm in reservoir setting up for this performance art Thang tonight. Free next week?,Bossos. Lemme know when's good,Monday is definitely doable,Hey yeah, will be in an hour or so? Gotta do some admin stuff. Where you thinking?,Perfecto. How bout like 1.30?,Cool see ya then!,Cool, Im here I think. How you travelling?,Alrighty then, see ya soon,Ooh yeah, might be good to pool resources.  I'll have a think about it.,Toenails next,That's postgraduate level right there,Looks cool but not sure if I'd want to own it haha,Depending on the time of year it could go viral,They just come out of Mr can't help it,I wish but were headed up to Canberra to see family for the next couple of weeks. Maybe we can catch up when I get back?,Will do \ude42,Hey sorry I couldn't make it to your bday thing. Things are a bit mad at home. Hop eyou had a blaster!,PS my partner got diagnosed with ADHD, would love to meet up and chat about it next time your free.,I can do monday for lunch/coffee in moonee?,lol, devastatingly honest,Oh Geez that's fucked. Hormones raging too. 1PM is fine by me, let's hang in the park should be nice weather.,Sometimes life feels like one bad 80s high school flick,Fucking hell woke up this morning with a summer cold. Might have to raincheck today. Sorry. Thursday work for you? Otherwise next week.,\ude2d\ude2d,Cool will let ya know,That's what spellchecker and autocorrect is for. Partner is the same. Incredibly smart but just can't do words good.,Haha, yeah spell check can't account for everything,They just love gargling Rs can't get enough,Yeah I can probably do that just gotta be back at 5 to pick up milad from daycare. Let me know how you're doing this afternoon haha,Working like a proletarian on my EP today but I'll see if I can tear myself away,Whoops sorry for flaking on you. Not super great at leaving the house at the moment \ude2d\ude2d,I do want to catch up just in a kind of hermit mindset I think,Yeah, coming along nicely. Got some good stuff done today. You had a show lady night didn't you? How'd that go?,Haha last night,Ooh yeah career goals,Shot on Instagram looked \udc4c,Very sultry,Got many shows coming up?,Living the dream,Just sit back and watch the cash and accolades and critical acclaim and stories of personal connection with your work roll in,Hey I'm home with my kid today but just hanging round the house if ya wanna drop by? Otherwise I'll be in the city at the studio all day tomorrow if ya feel like trekking out.,<home> Pascoe Vale South! Not too far from your place I don't think. Maybe come by in an hour if you have time? Just trying to get him down for an afternoon nap which will probably take a while :),Cool! See ya soon,kkkkkkk,Hey maybe we could collaborate on a single/cover? Might get you a back into recording again and could be fun! Or I could come over and and help you do some tracking to help you focus.,Haha no rush,Nar too broke har har.,Happy new year! All the best for 2018!,woo yeah downloading now,damn! bange. Love the bass elements good balance. Got a few notes if you want em..,haha fair enough that's why I asked,literally they are like niggling mix things which are of no consequence to the greater picture,good job. fucking good track,possibly, was gunna say you might wanna pull back the compression ratio on the mix bus a little bit or threshold or something. Just a smidge though,Compression kind of works for the song though I think, its a got a claustrophic kind of vibe so dont pull it back too much.,I didn't notice anything weird structure wise, like how it drops out a bit and the birdges and stuff,Anyway do it tomorrow. You just completed like 98 percent of the track in one stretch so probs no thte best time to making objective decisions haha,oh cool well yeah maybe back the ratio off a bit then and push up the overall level more. You can hear it especially on vocals so you might want to just dial it back on them a bit and leave the mix bus comp unchanged. Or maybe just add some saturation or reverb to the vocals to make em sound less compressed and more glued kind of.,Oh well all I had was bump up snare a bit?Maybe bit more low end on vocals or saturation to smith them out/help them glue or verb/delay?Can hear compression pretty intense when all elements are brought in.,*smooth,whaoh sorry just got this, been dropping off social media for a bit. <Name>'s starting a new job this week so we're running round getting everything in order for her so not free this weekend. Wanna get together sometime next week?,Yeah I saw that. Congrats Vacuum are fkin great,Yup, fridays the next few weeks. How you doing? Congrats on your Nun show! SO jealous lol,Yes please!,Nar the opening is this friday night though. I thought I invited ya,Come down if ya would. Would be nice to see ya! Sorry I've been a bit all over the place recently, just stressed about this show,Hey bud, good chats. Heres the gig page for tonight if ya thinking of mosying by\   "Awesomes will check them out. Do you have any stuff online eg soundcloud? Would love to hear,Woah, Broadcast are super psychedelic. Reverb rules!,No stress bud, went pretty wellWill have a little listen when I get home. Pretty sure my solo/synthy stuff is at www.soundcloud.com/liamfpower,Sorry I ran off got excited by the motorboat. See ya back at the compy labs?,You got some freezer sounds? Nice! which company? Managed to get some breathing and heartbeat sounds with my contact mic preamp I was telling you about the other day. Spooky,Tim would probably skin you,Cistern recordings? I did that the other day,freaky,I've heard good things about cold gold, was looking at some before I started building em. If I had the cash thats what I'd buy I'd say.,Apparently a good thing you can do for recording body sounds is get a cheap ebay stethoscope and put mics in the sound tube,like cheap ass electret condenser things,might be able to do a non destructive thing if it unscrewed or something,I'm down, I really want to hear what's going down in my intestinal tract.,I imagine great things,I made my first sound sculpture today for spatial,well, "sound sculpture","made","I","spatial",   "Fancy,Worst video ever.,Was thinking about just bringing in oven shelf to presentation wednesday,ol' oven shelfie,Just channel the buzz,use it to your advantage,"The buzz represents the constant wor<place> of the subconscious, out inability to just shut off in the modern world",hm, sometimes they just pick up hum randomly,Oh yeah,   <name> was talking about using a hydrophone for the sensory deprivation recording thing, and he said it was pretty buzzy but he ended up putting the recording through izotope rx and it cleared it up pretty well. I torrented the shit out it.,Hey yeah, we should put out somme feelers and kinda try and gauge interest. Should make it clear that we arent in opposition to no signal but rather we are providing an alternative? Id be happy to help organize gigs and exhibitions and stuff, dont have a heap of time to commit is all. Lets get some cawfee tomorrow after class and discuss strategy?,Yeah yeah, he emailed it to me yesterday. Wots yr email, I'll send it through,Sent it through, how ya doing with it? Ya channeling Pierre?,That sounds like a shitworld, not residual hangover from housewarming? Finished mine on Monday, well as finished as its gunna get. I wouldn't stress about it too, first assignment for first semester of first year of basic studio tech, also have a feeling that Byrons bark is worse than his bite.,Mine turned out fairly pedestrian partly cause of the delays and crap and not really knowing what he expected of us til after I had already finished \ude1e but oh well, guess I could be bum vomiting. I'm down with activating spaces, why do you think I go round kicking bins and jazz, for fun? I'm just saying don't kill yourself over this one coz I reckon the bar is set pretty low.,This Ableton assignment is a pile of shit. I'm already like 90 percent finished.,I'm thinking about asking <name> if I can do a analog synth assignment at MESS or something instead, or like, a tape looping assignment, coz I pretty much do this evey time I write a song.,Oh well, I guess limitations challenge us. I asked him if I could make my entire project out of one sample, or in operator. Built a drum rack entirely out of operator synths. Badass.,Need challenges,Finding spelling pretty challenging eh?,Chains edge,Shit,Have a feeling <name> was pretty critical of people he knows can use the criticism.,Maybe that's just the delusions of grandeur talking.,He's probably just seen every time of asshole float through his class over the years,Type,Actually agree with a lot of the shit he says,But mustn't let him know,Otherwise will go into ego death,Yeah, it does seem to be one of many possible paths, and was definitely one of my hesitations about ent<Name>g the academic side of sound.,But I guess its just integrity and personal ambition which'll steer ya from those waters.,There is a place for concepts in sound art though, and messages. think people get confused between all of this high-concept, art is art stuff, and become afraid of having ideas. 90 perfect of the time its probably just a flawed or lazy execution rather than a shitty idea which makes something bad.,Dunno if I can do Friday, gotta rush home after class and relieve babysitter. You're welcome to come round to my place if ya need help?,Ooh actually I am free til 3:30 friday. Gunna book the studio if ya wanna come along. I gotta mix some trax for a gig but can help ya out for a bit?,Or til 3 rather,Yeah no probs be able to do that in no time,Trying to groom myself for cushy tutoring position at RMIT in my 30s,\u2022 DRUM RACK\t\t\t\t\u2022 Build at least one sound, using multiple "one shot" or impulse-based samples. You instrument should also show how you use the mixer (the ability to expand drum rack in the session view to show each sample as a track) in DRUM RACK to add specific per-sample effect processing.,Think that means you can use your own samples,\u2022 YOU MAY NOT USE ANY PRESET SOUNDS OR SAMPLES FROM THE ABLETON LIBRARY.\t\t\t\u2022 ALL SOUNDS SHOULD BE MADE BY YOU FROM DEFAULT SETTINGS.\t\t\t\u2022 ALL SAMPLES SHOULD BE SOURCED, IMPORTED AND EDITED BY YOU.,So I think you have the right idea,If you sample your drum machine you are sourcing, importing and editing the sounds,So much all Caps,woah didn't know about those,It actually looks pretty good! Know where I am gunna spend the next 5 hours and 27 minutes!,So bummed about how my performance went today. Pretty sure I didn't end up doing half the things I wanted to do.,Is that me overanalysing?,Wow thanks for the pep talk bud! Yeah, maybe its the week 8 burnout or whatever getting to me. I guess I just would have wanted more time to setup and soundcheck and stuff, and I rehearsed with headphones which was a lot more immersive. The original idea was to have a headphone amp which everyone could listen in to, but that didn't work out technically. Think <Name> just got the heebie-jeebies that we were pissing people off possibly/being loud which I kinda sensed and maybe cut it a little short. But the fundamental idea of listening closely to objects, or hearing tones that you otherwise wouldn't hear was transmitted I suppose, and I really liked the space. I've got a few recordings (lots) that I've made of that fence already, for backups in case it rained today, maybe I should do something with them. Anyway, its over and on to the nextie. How you faring with Ableton?,Neither have I but I'll talk to him taday. Just had a minor existential crisis but back on track now I think. I'm just focusing on writing a good song in the parameters he's set now rather than break my back over crafting something mind blowing. Probably just gunna take it easy for his class seeing as he doesn't seem to have a massive investment in it.,6.1.9 so we just gotta stay on after class.,Probably gunna get in late cause <Name> is being a crazy bb this morning.,Check yo privilege girl,Bringing launchpad and goodies for sampling Voyager,Don't need to stress bout turning up late I guess. <name> ain't showing up til 10,For the no signal thang? Fuck this weather though. I would but got heaps of shit to do at home.,Gewd! Gettin shit done for Byrons thing. Also preparing for this solo show next week.,How's the freezer hunt?,Ya been doing some audio manipulation stuff?,Good, did some analog synth overdubs today and it's sounding real cohesive. Gotta cut vocals and final mix and I'm there.,Half half, took it as an opportunity to develop an sort of sketch I'd had. Hopefully turns out pretty good. Borrowed some midi controller from Tim so I could mix sans computer screen.,Got some program which lets me shut my MacBook and can still mix and jazz. Super useful for that stuff,Second year awaits!,Ey buddo! Back from Bali? I see ya got the studio booked today, was wonderingif I could pop by and do some quick sampling of the voyager thru headphones if ya think you'll get a break at some point?,Cool beans! I'll see ya there round 1ish probs!,You on campus? Coffee before spatial prac?,woaaa,got a big fishtank?,electromagnetic harp?,plenny of time for dat kinda shit missy, ya gotta catch the lil fish before ya can catch the bigguns,nah just water movement playing strangs,jajajaja will birng stuff,holidays matey,jams,Me too! In the studio today writing some half assed synth punk tune coz lacking inspiration. Pretty sure anything you do will be better than the status quo. Don't be too hard on yourself.,Daddy gave us the keys to the porsche har har. Yeah good, pretty happy with what I have already, guess I have to be. How bout you?,Mine's quite pedestrian, but possibly just lack of objectivity,Naw, just gunna press play.,Hey so the final assessment for Byrons class is due on the 14th right?,Blerhjjjjj gunna email him,blarrghhhhhh,Must take charge of studio tech chaos,The only way we will ever have power is if we take it from him,we must rise up and seize the means of production,woah mixing metaphors now Im confused,Possible! What time would ya need me, I'll be in the studio thursday morning hopefully.,Yeah I can help ya out just pop me a message when ya on campus and I'll come meet ya!,Oh geez I'm not going to the studio tomorrow forgot I have an inspection tomorrow at 11! Sorry bud!,Ingrid missed a call from you.,Whoops,Pocket dialled,Ingrid missed a call from you.,Where are ya? Coming to help ya with gear,Woah soz just got dis. Nah I got a 2i2. I'm a multitracker.,Whoops soz had to grab the 5:11. Might see ya tomorrow after bozs class?,Btw what's ya number? Mines <number>,Ohcool. Pretty sure my friend <Name> Payne volunteered there for a while. Might still. Ooh yeah it's official got yo digits. Kept forgetting to ask and then needing to contact you. Stupid Facebook.,More than Facebook official,Feel so warm and fuzzy,\ude0d\ude0d\ude0d\ude0d\ude0d,Now you'll be subjected to the bitchy rants and emotional highs and lows of a Power friendship,wooooaahh is it bad that I already did something for that space assignment we learnt about today?,got out me hardware and bashed out a sort of semi percussive dubmix of a bunch of tones. Kind of working from silence into a full range frequency type content, then paring it back,analog synth and tx81z,might keep it on the back burner and see if I can come up with something better,yeah, I didn't even consider field recording with this one,that sounds cool as shite. Do you have anything I can listen to?,   what I have so far btw,google drive is the future,its kinda spatial isnt it?,more like, slowly filling up space,nah the recordng?,oh wiat,typo galore,afijsj,google drive is spacious too,appropriation?,seems like he was kind of sayign we could do both,yeah, I guess I was mixing it in a room with speakers, hm. Maybe if I played it in a stairwell and recorded with zoom or something,best of both worlds,autopan matey,automate the lfo which controls the rate of pan,scarlett 2i2,pretty boss for the price,preamps are pretty damn transparent, which is pretty rare on buss powered ones,interfaces I mean,look into it, I got one off some gumtre guy for a hundred bucks. Oh wait, you arent getting centrelink :(,do you have windows or mac at home?,Oh shit, I've got an interface you can have if you want it,tascam us122. A bit old, but its got audio and midi i/o,only reason im not using it is coz they dont make mac drivers,I recorded on it for ages. The preamps will defs be better than zoom pres,plus you can send midi out to synths and jazz,I'll bring it for ya tomorrow and you can try it out if you want,if it sucks arse,then just give it back and i'll turf it,no way brargh, I aint even using it,plus they are worth like shitballs nowadays,just buy me a coffee or summat,sikkkkk,sonm?,that'd be ace,new friendship level achieved,woah cool signing up now,woah, your relationship with him is out of control,get a bit teary did we?,"I'll see you next semester Tim I promise",Yeah, I think we have a practical working relationship where he explains things to me I already know and I pretend I don't know what he's talking about,That's coz you always borrow stuff that requires long winded explanations,Tim's a busy man,No time for first year bastards like us,nah just more jaded and sigh filled,already more so than first semester,been listening to this, pretty spatial\   "Seriously just keep at em, took me 3 months once to get a centrelink application through, and I jsut went in as often as I could and hounded the bastards,des mot et des sons?,or especes despaces,havent got to that yet,I'm 10 miutes into des mot et des sons and its gone fucking insane,burned parmegiana is my fave sounds guy atm,I wanna kisshim,too bad he ded :(,2016 year of the dead legend,worst,help us bowie ghost,goodnacht,seea\\ya tomoz will bring interfacey,I wish. Nah gotta stay home with <Name> coz <Name>'s got heaps of Uni work she needs to do. Also missing class tomorrow coz life. \ude15,Sad life,How ya doing?,I hear ya. Got a lot going on too. Kinda pissed but unis gotta take a back seat for a while while I figure out some shit. Oh for the simple life of last semester.,That's be awesome! Just the good bits!,Found out a couple of weeks ago that my dad is really sick, going to the Alfred with him tomorrow to talk about surgery and chemo and stuff.,Pretty shit,Sad times,Haha. Yeah soz for Facebook real beds,Realness,So yeah, pretty distracted from sound art atm. Which is whack. Talking with <Name> and jazz about special consideration and stuff.,I reckon I can handle it, but I'm probably by gunna do that great this semester,Not,Yeah, I reckon I'll get it worked out. Just kinda whack coz I was totally into this course and now life is screwing with it.,Bleegh,Least it's only first year,I'll bounce back,Ha ha. So I pay 15 bucks to watch <name> twindle knobs on a synth. Might be inneresting,Hey bud, we still sampling harp tomorrow? I'm down, but I got some shite to do in the morning but will be at RMIT round 11:30 if that suits,Good Ol harpy. Alrighty, well I'll let ya know when I'm coming in? Gotta get <Name> to daycare etc.,harp spectograms look prety kewl,can totes see all the harmonic,that's what you yawning looks like,The loud one looks pretty bangin,like the massive full range pluck at the higest tones,there it is insabely denoised you can see better but it sounds like arse,arse,anyways im gunne plug em into ableton and see how they sound,Dang it sounds real nice multisampled!,Got a super realistic stereo spread coz of mics too,   what it sounds like playing some hits,so tedious to make multisample though,haha, yeah its super quantized,its so inhuman,tried that but it didn't work that well,meh, did it though!,I reckon we can both use the same sample material if you cbf going in and recording more stuff, like it will be obvious that we both made different samplers,nah I did it the old fashioned way like a dummy,cold meds,as in name and key zone everything manually,and set start and end points for each of the 40 samples or whatever,nah, I went through and sliced it up and renamed them using a tuner and a frequency to midi note number chart,   "coz me ear sucks,itll be easier for you,Fair call. I'll let ya know what <name> rants aboot,Hey I we just did very basic intro to max and some tips and tricks for mixing and a rant on the redundancy of mast<Name>g engineers in contemporary music. I can catch ya up on the max stuff next time I see ya if you need.,Lol,You're a dick,<Name> was in good form,feel like him and other <Name> were doing good cop bad cop though,Yeah, apparently he's not usually like that though? Playing it up for the class maybe?,Thanks matey, pretty hard times at the moment but it's all over and that is good. Have talked to <Name> and stuff so should be fine.,Hey bud, how ya doing? Was thinking we should have a synth jam sometime in the nearish future. You free next week?,Totally understandable wanting to drop off the grid for a bit. Hope you're managing alright. What are your plans for the holidays coz I'm off to japan next week so dunno if I can squeeze in a jamola before then. xx,Yeah might have to get together then if not on a weekend in decembre. Wanna see the synth cave! Good luck with the traineeship you ambitious young thing.,Hey bud how ya doing? Sorry been a bit out of touch. Just throwing out feelers for a possible group show with a theme around degradation if you are interested. X,Cool beans! Ya free next week?,I can do Thursday for sure, got class, but after 12:30?,Ooh argh cool. Will be good to see ya! Where's good for you?,OK cool how bout Mr tulk or something round 1ish?,We still on for cawfee?,Sure Thang. I can't do tomorrow but sometime next week is fine.,I can do Wednesday morning for sure. Will book ya in. Feel better!,Yeah duck dat. I got 2000 due tomorrow and I just got off work. No sleep for the wicked.,You're telling me,theres nothing concrete in it.,been working more actually, tons of shifts. Got money but feel empty Need to fill up void with useless crap and takeaway food..,Hows shit on yr end?,Yeah, in the same boat, got the week off, studying and synthin,hows yr vsti shit going?,Welcome to my world man. Is there a time when they aren't home? Utilisethat! Otherwise headphones or find a studio. Once I get my shed done yr free to use that.,   "Finally got around to doing some recording of my synth. FAT square wave SOUNDS!,finally realeased from the shackles of computer music,nah man, work at it you'll get some good sounds, just takes a while to get the hang of things,depends on what sound you wanna make. I'd say get as many as you can, see which ones you use then get rid of the rest. Sometimes the more simple ones are better. And maybe spend a little while looking up synth architecture. Once you know what each module means VCO, VCF, VCA etc, then you can understand what all the knobs do and making the sound that appears in your head gets a lot easier.,me too, can't wait til its done.,man, just wait til holidays come along and you have all the time in the world, then the fear of freedom will get a hold of you and you'll be begging for some mindless study.,fuck yeah, probably in the summer.,each issue will have a dream, and a reality.,The reality will be something like the stories I have been writing bout the preofessor etc. Realist stories, then the dreams will just be drea journal shit. Found a bunch of old ones that were pretty insane and I'm sure if I hammed them up a bit they would work.,Plus if I base it round two main concepts I can compare/contrast shit and sort of have the two play off each other, both in content and aesthetic,ya know like having the real story white on black and the dream black on white or something,probably pretty simple, either stapled and then photocopied, either at monash or at sticky in the degraves subway,probably only make 20-25 copies for the first one,booklet style,try and get an interesting cover though, photocopied coffee stains or iron filings or some sort of pattern thing,yeah, wanted to make some stamps too, pretty easy, just need a knife and a eraser and an inkpad,plus a logo kidn of thing that was consistent throughout the issues would add to peoples association to my BRAND,naw, sounds awesome though, R.L crumb? robert crumb?,yeah I read some of his shit,COOL pictures,pretty,yeah, thats pretty much what comes outta this synth I'm making. Kidna forced drone cause I dont have many tonal options, but i spose its more about timbre at this point, therefore I'm getting havy into filters and delays and eqs and shit, so that I have more control over the sound.,Chundle, kevin smith talking bouit his dad dying?,I'll give it a listen some other time, <Name> is doing schoolwork right beside me and dont really wanna distract her,Curry of some kind. Potatoes? Sweet potatoes? Whatever is cheap and carby.,Pasta?,Soup?,Would love to dude but I'm just on my way to work now. Later in the week would be better cause I'm slamming out a 2000 worder for the next couple of days.,I dunno, curry is pretty simple. Bit of cumin, coriander, mustard seeds and turmeric, garlic and butter then mix it all up.,shityeahhhhhhhh,doubtful dude, think its been long enough,hm, you should maybe talk to them, but I guess youre thinking that if you bring it up they might remember kind of thing,hm, well maybe it doesnt count. Not sure dude.,unfortunately,im sure itll be fine man,they have peoplek doing shit like that all the time,they probably make half their money off the indecision of 20 somethings,thatd be the shitttt,how ya been dudeson?,wall of light,how would we do it though, a whole bunch of LEDs?,Like the incongruity of something pure in a world where everything is meant to be slightly fucked?,That'd be pretty fuckin awerdomrrrrr,hey helen hunt,how ya doin,hows sats night go eh?,latin,as if you dont want to intonat psalms  with a deep vthraty oice,throaty,do it man,you ould talk to jesus,did you have any mushrooms on saturday night,cool, whadja get up to?,I had a few,I was pretty fucked already though,hm... a little bit, but it was just like being stoned,must of forgot dude, was pretty screwidoed, whose idea was it to play <place>?,yeah, we were all chugging beers, it was like a cool frat party,nah it was pretty cool , i had a slammin time,thats just the 23 in you talking, everyone was at some gig,badassssssssss,preacherhitman?,jru its good, it shows that you have visual ideas and lends imagery,pretty sure his schedule isnt that crazy,I am also going to. Those geese in caul field park were so shit. I used to kick em all the time. And they'd rush you on your bike.,you gunna come to kareoke tommorow night?,FUCK yeah,gunna be a slammer,gunna buy a slab and have a few drinks at my place in the afternoon before we head into the shitty if ya wanna join.,asshat?,cool man, well probably leave at like 6 but whatevs, lemme know,nighto,Pretty swamped starting uni and crap mayynn, ill let ya know when im free,cool ill have a read of itt,yeah man, sounds good, during the day?,i got a lecture til 12. so maybe se could go at like 2.,good call, any reason?,thats true, but why would you wanna have a conversation with someone?,you dont really needa talk, just make gestures or bring a picture of a croisssant with a question mark and a euro sign,yeah, money throw,yeah, guiltand irrational action will get you everywhere in france,i dunno, seeing how it goes. Havent heard anything yet, got a meeting with student services wednesday, will discuss my options with them and see what's what.,i am let in now, I'm seeing whether i get kicked out. so I am doing my readings and going to class and stuff.,only found last week cause they sent me a letter but it got sent to caulfield,Fuck yeah, but We need an edge, lets do drunk cooking. Or bare knuckle boxing and cooking. Or wig cooking.,Im gettin me a cast iron pan soon,and i have some half decent knives,WHAT, ARE YOU TRYING TOS AY about the quality of my cookeware and utensils? Humiliate me, but not my pans,I AM obviously very passionate,I LOVE the knives,I love knives,and hot pans,i think it shows my dedication that I allow myself near the dangers of the kitchen just to make a meal,you know how many things in the kitchen could burn or hurt you,I have a BBQ baby, just gotta fire that sucker up,I probably shouldnt be anywhere near knives,but i risk it, for food,therepeutic cooking, we put on new age music and stuff,dress up in ponchos,and give each other massages and stuff,on camera,and off ;),;),woah",""" "thats how i feel right now,what the hell is yerba mate and how did you get an accented e?,we shoudl cook hemingways burger recipe,   "good call,needa get some msg,we could do famous literary recipes,like prousts madeleine cake,or the menudeo from that carver story,thats true,we could do special episodes,with a theme,or just normal ones,we shoudl do a pov episode with head cams,like peep show,that means people would know Exactly how to cook it,they could just pretend they have our hands,and during those 20 minute streteches we just do what we normally do,like drink and shit,literally shit,thatd be so real,REAL,oh yeah,that sounds cool,stalin chicken,musollini risotto,kung mao chicken,lenin jerry's (ice cream recipe),polpot roast,franco fries,abbot's lager,gengis flan,fuck yeah look sgreat,such a good call, plus they just look more AUTHENTIC,what type of film ya thinking?,fuckin a, should get a shitton and jsut take photos of random stuff for a while to get a feel for it,big w in the shitty is real cheap for printz as well,yeah, <Name>would know heaps more than me atually,fuckin a,too right,and dont you forget it,so hows trix,oh yeah, whered ya go?,sweetness, good timeS?,sweatness,wanna get together for a bew this week?,im workin tue thur and mon, but wed and fri is my time?,shitnoise,alrighty,fuck being old,and werkin,yavulis,im prettybroke so itll prolly be a longneck and chat.,badarse,you can sleep in one of those,good call, you can live in a car forever,yeah, cause living at la trobe uni wouldnt be the most depressing thing in the world,drug dealer?,yeah, ill buy an cyanide you got, or anthrax,darn,great one,not a good combo,you needa be drinking one mor ethan the other,cant do it in euqal amounts or they cancel one another out,I need a new job damn,getting 2 shifts a week,which is fucking shiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiit,sounds bonza mate,yeah mexican is the way to go , cheap to make and everyone loves that shit,focus group,fuck yeah,id slam that,i WAS JUST SAYING THE OTHER DAY THAT THERE NEEED TO BE A BREAKFAST BURRITO PLACE IN MELB,woah, accidental caps,still, kinda works,breakfast burritos, leave off on having to deal with licensing for a bit id say,that shit is a hassle for even the most established alcoholics,yeah thats what i meant, with the whole tequila thing, plus we want to focus on foood,and coffeee,need a vego option too,corn cobs i guess,fuck my ass,i wanna make em so bad,wanna have a cookup at my place tomorrow?,or at yours?,yeah cool banas,its locked up during the day,but still,ill come to you,gotta get some jeanz tomorrow,so gunna go into the shitty or maybe down syds,sick as,we cna go to the butcher,shoudl we make our own tortillas,some of the halal butchers kick ass,yeah totes, but i might jsut make up some tomorrow using my own recipe,need to buy a rolling pin though,   gotta check out this operation,pulled pork is the SHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIT,yeah, can we do like plain pulled pork and add spices at a later date, eg do a southern american one with apple and bbq sauce etc and do a mexican spiced one with cumin and shit?,nah you couldnt could you,yessss,lets just make a shit ton of pulled pork, ive been anting to for ages,tweakidoo,get a kidn of tex mex thing happening,eople love that shit,it is kinda lowing up though, but its still super expensive,if we got a cheapish tasty as fuck recipewe could undercut those bastards,yeah exactly, shit is like 5 bucks in america is like 15 dollars here,still, i like the idea of undercutting,exactly,or buy one and get all their friends to come along and be like yo cheap carnitas,and then a bloc party starts and some broadsheet assholes discover you,and then you're set,fuck need a food truck,sick as,now we just needa save up a million,so funny man, so much and so little changes,liking the brunswick and the easey street ones, will have a proper look in a bit, gotta do some sold<Name>g.,fucking awesome,did you read it?  cant remember,what the hell did they attach to it?,in our moths?,mouths?,wha?,dnnno mate,nobofy,woolworths,got werk matey,whatdi dyo do?,my keyboard is all fcked,no uuuuuuuuuuuuuuus,or vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvs,Classic. Did you cry?,no proboo yoboo i went and hung out with denny,i know, everyone is getting all old and fcky],23,is not old,23 is 2 years past 21,i dont get it,people are stupid,dickd,dicks,really?,and ya got robbed?,fuckin shit,what happened,and there was nothing in it?,paypass?,that not that bad I guess,hm, yeah,ya never really realize,ya know, whats going on behind closed doors,and shit,haha, thats multiculturalism right?,ya dingus, ya should always bring your steel,no shit,well both go there next time,slam some cuntz,bareknuckle bozing,SICK,SICK,its pretty incongruous,well its kinda everywhere man, all over the world theres this fucked up tacit divide between people that widens and narrows,slums next to mansions kidna thing,yeah, or make em real victims of circumstance which is rather biasing,yo cetcha,so good,and bad,its a really really bad movie,but, its good cause its bad kinda thing,haha, come over for dinner this week man,yeah babyboy,Haha, savant basyards,hey hey how ya doin,me too, yeah,some glass and cocncrete shitox in courg,shitbox in coburg,my b key is all fucked,ggggggggggggggggggh hbbbbbbb,SHIT,my keyoard sucks ass,g nn            vvnjlnvvvn n,I actually cant use the letter anymore,anyway,cool,yeah I havent seen you in forever,i got some autumn cold bbbug thinjg,at the eer festival?,shit,nbn b nvbbbbbv g gvvg  n,wo whats been going on man?,yeahyeahyeah,sounds shitty,bbgb,really?,how cheap,nice,yum,I have asolutely no money for proaly the next fie years,so i iwll never eat out anywhere ever again,except for dumpsters,and hbarkly square roast potatoes,yeah, to guy who hates his occupation yet works more than the people that like it,did you get a polo,im gunna get cargo shotys and a lime green polo,totally,sweaters around our necks,and chinos,and pale pink polos,salmon,and eige,im at the jn beige stage,shit yeah,exactly, he'll be unique,ararar,im fuckig starving man, gunan go make some eat,hey whered you get your knives from,I eeda get some good homewares efore <Name> goes all kmarty o my ass,oh yeah, victoriox,?were they expesive,yeah, I just need a good utility knife,i already got a smaller one,gunna hit my maw up for some cookwares,might get a victorinox actually,fuck yeah,thats what I want,I want something that can murder <Name>,if I need,also need some goot saucepans,naw,I jsut want the option,to coko the liver,my keyboardis actually totally fucked,naw, itd fall apert,you can shallow fry it i think,actally it might,i dunno,naw its ok, i'm just copying and psting b now,plus its kindof \\fun,seeing whether people will understand,my shitty typos,nice one,its cause i have to try,man, 23, getting myown place, having a kid,so fucking fucked,its like i fast forwarded my life and im usddenly 35,i didnt moive out til i was 21,i had two years,of freeeeeeeeeeeeeeedom,oh well,thats true,i guess i had like 4 years,ut still,i need an office jo,I NEED IT,if i find one, ill get you in there,we can have matching cuicles,   "yeah,nah, im gunna op shop suit it man,so much etter,yeah man,super worth it,i need to get one for office jos,gunna get a haircut too,and a personal loan,gotta have some det,round it out,gotta suit up for the war,exactly,and put it all into gold ullion,gggn                                   v    bbbb bbbbbbbb,I feel like ass,im sick and im making <Name> getr me party sausage rolls from the iga,so good ad,   "awesome,i cant wait to furnisha w hole house,its gunna rule,like 350, <Name>s parent are helping out thigh,oh yeah,sure,premium couches,what kinda aocuhes,oh in the lounge,oh cool,awesome,we have room for two,id saw,say,ut we need a futon,for when the grandparentsstay over,and shit,sowe need one regular couch and one magic futon couch,were prolly gunna just purchase a futon,yet the other couch would e awesome,housewarming present,i know, its adass,its not that spacious ut that is prolly good,cause we needa pick and choose hsit,and its got a garage which i can use as a studio,the garage is huge,ut well need to put the car in it it derr,it all new and shit so it wont e that hard to clean,yeah man i might,though i think <Name>s foloks are coming down,ut theyre all old and hernia filled so might need a hand with the heavier stuff,plus were gunna need to move a fridge up stairs,yeah,on the 1 line,haha yeah,thats true,yessir,why dont you ring up that place thats down the road from your place for pizza,i hear ya,shallow people tryig to look deep,no way,im about to get somethig else stuck to me that i cant ever erase,and that ill regret years after,and will be incredibly painful and pointless,just get some ficolous shit, thas whqat most people do,its like 90 percent aesthetics,tattoo thenumjer of the pizza place,LOLZ,cool, lemmesee,Went to the doctor, and the doctor said, take a few of these and you'll sleep like dead,ooh yeah,they were called doxylamine or something,worked pretty well,hey baby,you're gunna come over to MY new house sson bra,we shoudl hang after uni exams are all over and shit,and ive moved,im all stressed and broke,meh, its hard to work and go to uni at the same time, actually, its hard to go to ni and have a life at the same time,thats pretty much me last year,and I wasnt even working,Just screwing around,just gotta do what ya can I guess,its fuckeyed,good call,join the ranks of the uneducated worker bees,gotta feed the queen,seeign as we'll e cut off from the rest of the world by then,i know, its like the workst period in the last 30 years to be starting a degree,we've got such an overqualified workforece as well,exactly,its pretty bullshit, they got all the good jobs, cash, security and shit, and we get the shitty jobs, lack of advancement, and crushing debt,i know, im looking at the moment and  there isnt much,thursday week baby,gunna prolly have a dinner thing,yeah, june 6th actually, the day after my gig,what a week,stress\\\\,yeah man, at the council flats,bullshittt,whats you rweek looking like? if you're at the state library or something we can have lunch before work one if ya dig,thats kinda bizarrely good, kinda dont realise how much shit yo put on card and then forget,well im working tomorrow, wed and thurs and probably sat, or fri. How bout tomorrow?,cool slammers, lets pencil that shit in,nah man, blackoards are the shit,inhaling chalk dust,get some blackboard paint and paint existing shit in your room into a blackboard,I always wanted to do the side of a speaker or a desk or something,close to my bed so i could write shit down before bed,good call, but blackboard paint is the best,   "I know, I want to be a fucking fisherman or something,or a postman,or anythign ut some office turkey,nah fuck that, wasy too hard,rather be a labourer,nah, sick as,good pay, get to work outside,NICE,SICK As,just kidding,i jsut wanna get paid to be a pundit or something,jst be considered an expert in some specialised shit,   "Youd e like this,Think of me ;0,really?,shiiiiiiiiiiit,pricks,no shit,get outta the country for a while,I would if I could,freaking horrorshow,ah dont worry, itll e round for years,by the way might need a hand moving in a couple of week,sweetmelts,still on for coffee or something tomorrow?,shit yeah,dunno, not too early, like 1? 1:30?,wouldnt mind some lunch,wanna try out this place    "KOREEEEEEEEEEEEEEAN,its really cheap apperently, korean <Name>dons kinda thing,sweeeeeeeeeeeeeeeet,man, i havent seen any friends in weeks,im like a freaking work robot,Buuulshit,I hear ya, jobs suck,I just wanna get some huge grant from some crusty old maniac,and live forever on a plot of land in a house I built myself,making synthesizers and music and growing my hair and nails til they hit the floor,then murd<Name>g people and getting away with it,me too, damn I wish we were gay and responsiility free,WHY DO I LOVE WOMEn,its your tight buns,doughy,pretty sure a gay man would pounce on that shit anyway,itd be so much easier (in some very minor ways) being gay,then again ya know, the whole society kinda secretly disdains you would fucking suck,nah,i was just imagining what it would e like,so FREE,nah man, surrogate,get a girl friend to get turkey baseted,how long would ya go for?,just gunna see how long you last eh?,that'd be cool as shit,which one is cheaper to fly into?,I'd hang out in china,that place is so fucking wierd,go there on the way,check out the screwy industrial landscapes,take heaps of photos, e a fucking nomad and run around,thatd be wild, check out which film is ale to go through x rays and shit though,though it might e different for 35mm,or whatever,alright,nah apparently film getting screwed through airport scanners is a myth, it does have an effect but it just ages the film a bit,if anything itll make your shit more aturated or something,that sond cool,yeah, taiwan looks reqlly cool,as does hong kong,that awespme,YEs,fuck yeah,sounds awesome,yeah baby, whatsup?,haha,hm,Ill ask <Name>, ut I reckon tlc cause its has more health connotations,TLC has girl band connotations, but maye if it was Q-tea,Tea Blaster1,thats true, how bout Teavolution,I dunno, what kidn of brandings are you going for, liike health connotations, or like female empowerment, or like weight loss,Koala Tea,Quality,Be Cosy,totoes,totes,Synchronicitea,manatea,Brutalitea,Reynotea,J.R.C Mana Tea,The Faraway Tea,Sup brew,teanote speech,Restoratea,Sure tea,Restoratea,Claritea,Claritea sounds like a swiss little girl,Just R.T,Yeaqh, make it look like some 19th century cure all,What kind a brews are you thinking?,Rooibos n shit?,Teatox exists,Yeah Fuck that IP,Call it T3,T2.0,T2.000000000000000000000000000000000001,Golden Mean,You gunna get some help from your uncle or whatever that was some tea rep?,Narce,whats the site?,so I can undercut your ass,I'll slam some english or irish breakfast,or earl grey,yeah, well thats like most industries,just the smae shit with a different label smacked on,and some 'secret' proprietry method of making your shit better than everyone elses,marketing is like 9999.99999,making people believe in your brand,and associate certain things like trust, quality, trendiness etc with it,so that the placebo effect takes care of the rest,I'll give ya 3.99,No way, its probably be that one 1c that is work a thousand bucks,Hey, ya might be on a roll,You're probably the most active recently unemplyed pertson ive seen though,yeah baby, im down,I love tea,ill get paid in rubbing the pure shit into littl cuts on my arms,and onto my gums,for the pure hit,and ill shit out 10kgs of pure lard,I want a fucking percentage motherfucker,Nah man, I want 2 poINTS,3 pOINTS,4 points every day you dont pay motherfucker,Horse FUCKER,when doi ya reckon youll get the shit,im insanely busy this week,Blargj,Narce,bank transfer that shoit,how much are you putting out?,a million?,capital man, which hedge fund?,whats the bottom line?,high interest loan frozen for five years,Bit of creative tax refunding, negative gearing,shift your shit into offshore accounts,I'm quoting the NEW WOrlD OrDER,DAS KAPITAL,Soz, bit braindead,jamming hard all week for thurs,GUNNA bE SIIICK,savage nobles,Naw, we'll find out in a couple of weeks,Those gig photos turned out sick! That film is really spooky.,Going to. They turned out awesome anyway. Nice and saturated.,Fuck yeah, memories. Maybe ill put em up in my new studio.,Probably next week. Gunna get settled in foist.,If I can get a bike from somewhere? I'm working Friday though.,Yeah sure, putting <Name> on but ill see if I can put you on too.,   "Awesome, those photos look great!,I've been there. God some decent stage shots too.,Full that noise I'm a hardware man.,Yeah baby, just took a few mins,So sweaty,Ill chuck them on the Facebook,Meh, it looks semi deliberate,Spooky,These other photos are cool,Next gig I'll try and get you some sort of designated photo spot.,I like that one that looks like I'm fobbing the microphone.,Gobbing,Deep throat,I might've man, hasil Adkins is the shiiiiiiiit,Yeah they smoke ass,I fucking hate sport. I thought you meant monopoly,No fucking way, we're coming to a stage in our lives where we need to do all we can to prevent shit like that consuming us and making us into a mindless drone.,Lets make hotdogs and play monopoly,Wasnt it meant to teach people to ups and downs of the real estate market?,Plus its unrealistic, noone ever has that much money.,I'm so freaking broke man, I have been eating mi goreng and cheese sandwiches all week.,The capitalist system sucks,I gots works BRAH,And I'm infectious as fuck,Being sick sucks, and being broke sucks, but being sick AND broke sucks even worse,we should go sat or suns,I think everyone's sick,Just rbing a green bag lines with a plastic bag, that shits way sneakier,Or jsut eat everythingthing then vomit it, then eat it again,Being sick is wierd cause you're hungry all the time but eating doesnt really change anything,its like, I want the comforting aspects of food all the time, but the nutrition just cant break through the thick layer of mucous encircling everything,I wish spitoons were socially acceptable,and still widely used,I'd slam that shit,Buckets for everything,Or same bucket for everything,Fod bucket, piss bucket, cheese bucket. Snot bucket, soap bucket. Vomit piss, blood come.,All colour coded so your fucked up brain can understand,Why the hell are you in the tea business.,The SickCase,go flog that shit to some organic markets and shit,Anyway I gotta splitoon, work tomoz,Lateurs,You wanna come to lentils for dinner? Me and <Name> are driving down later.,Alrighty then.,Like 6 or 7?,We can pick you up, got the car?,Nah we'll pick ya up its on the way matey","" "Cool man. Illetchaknow,Preston isn't that far out at all man,It's closer to yr uni,Guess it depends where in Preston,Tango magi is in thornbury,Brah,I dunno. You go out in cooling wood a bit don't ye?,Dude that's a great location,You've been to cleas right? It's a little bit suburban bit if ya get bored ya can go to northcote,We'll you'd be like 10 minutes tram ride away from where ya are now,Maybe 15,I fuckin love the burbs man. I remember when I first moved Ito my place I was like " fuck this is the middle of nowhere " then I lived there for a week and found my way round and it was like. Shit yeah my rent is cheap,Your own place?,Man it wouldn't be that bad, trust me. <Name>and <Name>used to live out there and it's fine. Tago mago, thornbury theatre. Plus there's heaps of caf\u00e9s and shit. It's a total up and coming area.,New American diner opened up there as we'll,Rob bank,Everybody movin out, by the time were 30 we'll all be in dandemong,All live in some docklands bourgeois complex,Yeah dats true. Guess ya just gotta figger out what you wanna do in the next year and move/not move based on that.,Get patch,Patch it with velvet,THATS WHAT HE SAID!!!!!","" "Anyway. Gotta go, cooking pie.,,Almost DONE!!!,Come round for cold pie!,You and your darn ramen,?,they're pretty badass,ill check em out tomorrow in more detail,more deatil,sick as a dog man, sick twice in the last month weeks with different viruses,month,shit as,fucking time of year,had to work a 9 hour day today,so much codeine,yeah, call center is going off atm, working a shitload,getting those $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$,but losing my mind kinda,oh well, i wont need presence of mind to be a parent,just a bankroll and a belt,and a hard, disciplined body,endless rolls of 20 cent pieces,no way, you know how many GERMS are on those things,the only thing that will boost his immune system is having his face rubbed in his own shit until hes potty trained,anyway im off to bed, no rest for the wickerd,laters brah, should catch up when were both feelin better eh,the way im going thatll probaly be next decade,Nah love it look like a tard,Should frame them all In a love heart pattern with the mall pic in the middle,That'd be sick as,<Name> wants photos,But you have to make her look beautiful,So ya might have to bring some Vaseline,Yeah, she's gunna drape herself in her favourite nice sheet,Write it on a piece f rice paper and I'll eat it,500g gave me about 20 gizzards. The gizzards I see where I live are quite small compared to the gizzards in Nigerian chickens lol!,Lol!,Pianoey. No reservations is the shit.,Man. Riding round today. Bikes are the best. You should get yr bike working.,Hell yeah. Gunna smash free hotdogs.,Nah man, biking round.,Nah man you an have it back if ya want.,Yeah man I watched the hell outta that shit. I would live I that apartment.,That's cool. Come round when you're feeling better. He's doing fine.,Yes,Yes,I am back at work,How ya doin man. Saw that photo with  <name>. Looks ace.,Badass. Are ya still doing vca stuff?,Say Franco. He is doing heaps of farts.,And intestinal fortification.,To brush your enemies, have then driven before you, and to hear the Lamentations of the women.,Haha. Brush.,Wha?,Yeah! It's on my Facebook wall. I'll find it for ya if it's still on there,Think it was May last year or summat.,Nah jami and jeremy,and also denny,in the same weekend,yeah,Oh right. Well thanks for letting me know <Name>ya bozo,Yeah, its such a hassle to get shit together for a visit,What a bunch of clowns,I know. Super self centred,so whack,i'm pissed with everyone in that house,big shots,They wouldn't know half the shit that makes them "cool" if it werent for me. And then they blast it back in my face like they made it up,Dingusses,The best,what part you up to,soz for venting,thats true,you up to the wedding scene,Hey dude do ya reckon I could borrow that midi keyboard off you? Been doing lots of ableton live stuff recently.,Cool beans. I ain't working so any day is good fe me.,Been teaching him some farting.,Been staying up late nights making IDM,Ableton is the shits,Choo Choo. Cracked that shiiit,Slides? Or digital? Make one outta an old lcd and an overhead projector.,Uhhuh. Up til 6. How's it going?,Fuck yeah. What type?,How many resolution pixels?,That a good amount of lumens.,Serious, good deal, that thing was worth a hurt load 7 years ago,And I think the whole digital vintage, people listening to disclaims and touch wheel iPods thing is gunna start soon.","" "Betwe not mix these up,Oh god I just did a grandma thing.,How do I use this touch telephone?,Can ya get new bulbs for it?,When it blows let's try and fix it a/ tweezers and a bit of fuse wire. Can't be harder than those ship in a bottle things.,Cool, whatcha gunna project?,Yeah man that thing kicks ass. Thanks for letting me borrow it. My studio is streamlined, now I just need a 2011 MacBook Pro and cracked ableton and I can tour the world.,So do I, warez ftw! Epic torrentz!,gunna go to xmas eve with the fam tomorrow. And then probably hang at home for xmas day. what bout u?,Yeah we in da clip brah.,would love to but we'll be up in canberra til jan 5th. HAve a good one though,not yet bud, leavin in the morning,being driven by <Name>s stepdad,<Name>s <Name> takin the plane with,haiku talk accidental facechat,baby seat crying wildly,mother palm face,dirty passenger looks disgruntled,how yer projections gahn,yeah it looks real coo,yep,and like 1 minute of a song as people quibble over the songs,keep it well ventilated, put it on one of those wire stands,just lock your computer with the music playing,im pretty sure ya can do that,oh right,just piss on them,piss on everyone,then theyll leave you alone,wow, tomorrow is new years,I didnt even realise,no doubt, josh is a bad single,I gotta go to bed, early start tomorrow, 9hr drive,catch ya next year man,good luck with NYE,will do,ps listen to this and tell me what ya think,   "thats the one,later grater,hm, just record a bunch of shit and splice it together,or record the projection with a vhs camera then feed it ack into the prokector,or live mix it somehow,im sure you could load a bunch of visual clips into a program, (redd green, blue, grey, turquoise) and then trigger them with keys on your computer or something so you could fit what was going on stage with the pre-recorded visualisation stuff, that would make it less contrived and would also give you something to do other than set up the projector and press play,just get some free vj software,its like dub mixing video,pretty badass,haha, i reckon all he wants is some pseudo 1960s happening trippy visuals bullshit,gotta roll, franks going crazy,later,happy new years,Yeah I'm working, mightn't have much time for catch ups though. <Name> and <Name> are going down to portsea next week and I'm staying in mels though so we should have hangs.,  <name> can come round if he wants as long as it's during the day.,will do maisey poo.,see ya next week,<Name> will walk to your place and meet ya there.,Well <Name> is going to portsea with <Name> next week and I'm staying down to work, but got nothing on the week after. By the way we should getabeer next week. I'm free as a bird and can travel anywheres.,I'm down with that. I got like a hundred bucks or the whole week,Let's get some wine r something. Or you can come round to my place and we can spin records.,I got all sorts of new badass kitchen equipment so we should make chilli or something,Whatcha got on Wednesday night?,No way dude, as long as you were enrolled at Latrobe til the end of this semester they'll pay ya over the holidays,Then just tell me you're starting a new course in fe bro something and they'll switch ya over.,Feb,Just hold out til work goes back, work heaps and then tell them,If you were enrolled in subjects it doesn't matter if ya failed, they don't have access to any of ya records at Latrobe.,Not yet, still kind of a baldy.,Look at that shiny head,He's like ving Thames at the moment. With neck folds.,Ving rhames,I know, he's starting to look heaps like me. I think it's a biological thing so I don't run off to Dubai or something.,Coz I'd be symbolically running away from my vulnerable innocent self.,He's like albino ving,Yeah, I'm getting like no work either at the moment. And I gots mouths to feed.,I hate January. It can suck my anus hairs til it chokes and dies.,Fuck that man. I barely got desk job energy levels atm. I could probably get a job as a bowl of jelly impersonator.,bourgeois,<Name>s family is fuckign awesome, but their lifestyle is so far removed from mine,its like bizarro world,they like, watch foxtel, and eat meat and three veg, and watch the cricket and shit,and <Name> laps that shit up, like, they move once every couple of hours,and there are so many internet enabled devices arond, like one within arms reach at all times,and they are always on them,maye it was just coz they were on holidays,but its like, shit man.. go for a walk or something,but we went to the nga and saw the <Name> turrel exhibition,was pretty wild,nearly had a seizure,in a good way,he was man, he loved it, his eyes went alll big and moist,and he used that sound he makes when hes confused and exceited, NGOO,HEs such a daaarling,why arent you over everyday worshipping him,I'm beginning to think ill make marlon brando his godfather,   "its een working for ya man, been checking out yr website etc,im pretty isolated at the moment though, <Name>s friends come over all the time and the last time one of my friends came round was like, a month ago,haha, be careful what you wish for, vca aresholes are a new kind of aresehole,so is everyone by the sound of it, me as well,like, I love those guys, but they are totally full of shit osmetimes,and way too caught up in their own shit,I reckon its coz people like you, me and  <name>  are not around anymore to inject authenticity and bring them down to earth.,Yeah, who the hell is finn?,nah,I dont really care though, I aint pushing the issue, im gunna wait til hes six months old then bring him round to balmoral and be like "hey guys check it out I did the hardest thing I've ever done",Why dont ya go get stoned and gacked and suck each others dicks raw,dinguses,man im really bitter,i didnt even realise,I needa tone it down a bit,the only reason the dishes was loody was cause he would eat his FUCKIGN PEAS,"bloody,10 weekss today,you know it, hes gunna be at 3 months soon, which is like real baby territory,Hes already super advanced,and not even in a like, proud delusional dad way,hes doing shit like grasping and stringing together sounds, and reacting to music,hes kidna getting to the point where we can take him out for a picnic or something,I wanna do something for <Name>s bday, but I dont know where/what/who to invite,feb 9th,<Name> and jamie are no more,<Name> cut her off completely when franco was born,I know, what the hell, shes kidna trying to copy <Name> with her GSD life,but failing miserably,why doesnt she just be jami,I dont get it,gettin shit done,like shes all outwardly successful but inwardly fucked, but desperatley trying to prove to everyone that her life is better than theirs, that shit is so empty,yeah, like taking photogs and hanging them on walls,and spending wierd amounts of money on equipment and not eating,man, when did you become the voice of reasona nd I became the bitter twisted old crone,haha, dont worry, I just didnt realise how bitter I was about everyone.,I think its coz I dont really have anyone to vent my spleen at, so It all kidna gushes out in a horrendous torrent,like, I dont actually hate any of those guys, or even think that badly of them, I;ve jsut een ottling up all this minor annoyance,bottling,yeah thats true, I just dont wanna make a whole bunch of dad friends and then lose that part of my life forever I guess,bias?,meh, ill make some dad friends who I have shit in common with,and well have a sneaky beer and get home to the kids,that is like 5 years from now though,man, man,man? man.,MAYYYN,hows the projector gahhhhhhhhhhhn,ya been projecting and projections?,by the way, are ya gunna have a cinema thing?,well ya should at some point, wanna show off rank and shit,<Name>,blergh,maye we shoudl have something at our place, or a picnic during the day,I mean for <Name>s bday,nah, blergh as in I dont want <Name> to be around a bunch of stoned people, they get all touchy feely, my mum on xmas was fucked, she was all like OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO a baby,and she was just prodding him and breathing on his eyes,yeah, jsut gunna get messy,thats why ya have a private screening,anyways, i should go to bed,gotta sleep while <Name> sleeps kinda thing,ill give ya a buzz next week when im free,you wouldnt be saying them were the days if ya had to smell that shit the next morning,it was like a fucking nuclear bomb,them were the days tho,haha, and your mum kept coming in and asking if we were stoned,and reauben was like WAAAAAAAAAAAAT,and I was like "coo dat",and then reu en wanted to play some weather report or bbc radiophonic workshop or something,he loved new intro music,news,who the fuck actually likes filler msic?,what a steuben,do it friday! ive got the night off!!!,ill totally come round and get drunk as FUUUUUUUCk,gunna tho,I got home like an hour ago from portsea and I have the house to myself and I am just like, shit, there is so much stuff I wanna do this week,wha? now? I totally could,FUK dat man. I ride bike. Too late now anyway. Should hang out Wednesday. I got work n shits tomoz.,Shiiit yeah. By the way I'm getting a haircut in thornbury tomorrow. Ya wanna get 7/11 coffee or something?,\udbb8\udf2a,lets do it buddy,go somewhere in brusnwick,play pool or some shit,itss be coooooo,who the fuck is that guy in the event photog for yr cinema,sone rando that turned up to nye?,his eyes are haunting the shit out of me,whats with his wierd nose,that beard suck,is that meredit armband?,he looks like anes,what a fucking party pooper,man im glad i dont go to parties anymore,for serious,I just used to sit around and wait til everyone got drunk enough for me to put good music on, then theyd change it and id be like FML,nah, I'm the good type of music changer,I change it to songs that perfectly fit the mood,not liek some drunk asshoel that just wants to hear something,I have a enhanced sense for what song needs to be played at a specific moment in time,really? fuck yes,<Name> loves pere ubu,he jiggles his ass,he does, he starts crying everytime <Name> puts on beyonce and stuff,and gets totally mesmerised y can and pere uu and stuff,like shuts up and stares at the speaker,and stuff,anyway I gotta go to bed, getting a haircut tomorrow,gunan look like dis    "taking that photo in,actually, ill take this in,   "laterrrrrr,good luck with ur photogs,Cool man lets do that. I'll see ya tomorrow night.,hey bra hows it going? Getting into the VCA vibes?,Pretty good man, he's teething so in pain all the time, but taking it like a champ. We should catch up soon. I'm home all the time now coz I'm sty at home papa for <Name> and <Name> is doing uni full time. Get coffee or something.,Cool slanders. Yeah gimme a ring I be free all the time.,NAW dude she be first year greenhorn just like u,Hey man hows school gahn? what ya doin at the moment?,oh yeah, have you heard the minimal wave tapes? I reckon youd like em, theyre really early synthpop/newwave,   "hows vca? Living up to yr expectations?,we should get cofee when ever you;re free, haven't seen ya in a while,any particular song by blk dog?,ya got that rite,nothin planned, gorge on eggs and watch movies or something? Whatcha doioon,sounds good man, lets eat eggs to symbolize rebirth or sumthin,Woah, do you have your license?,You're the worst,<Name> IS IN TEARS NOW,nah jks LOL,ergh, barking like a dawg,Say what? First of all how was Jordan? Haven't faces talked Sven in a while. Last I saw he was hating on Abbott,Oh right, did ya talk to her?,Chasin tail eh? You kids and your intercourse.,Yessir. Do ya need it back?,Fo sho. Come get it whenever next week.,Geezuz man, you alright?,Shitdogs, that came outta nowhere. Good to hear you're feeling better, you get mad painkillers?,I got a suit BREW. You gotta catch up,Nice one, yeah! we can go to the city and have like one drink at a fancy pub, then go to the bottle o and hang out in the alley nearby trying to catch us some dames,Awrgh! Thanks bud. Come round and visit sonetime eh??,Hell yeah! Tabets party!,Easy as fuck. Bass cones?,Measure yor speaker in inches,It'll be like 8 inch or 10 inch or some shit probs. get some new cones and drop em in, might need to solder some wires on, but usually you can just twist em on or get some spade crimps or some shit,SHIT MAN JUST GOT ALL DIS. JUST PUT ANY SPEAKER IN THERE COZ MOST OF THE TIME THE GOOD BASS COMES FROM SPEAKER ENCLOSURE DESIGN ANYWAYS, AS LONG AS IT IS MADE OUT OF DECENT MATERIAL AND HAS NO HOLES IN IT SHOULD BE FINE. LETS HAVE SOUP. ALLCAPS.,no stress pirncess, just thought it had been a while since i seen yo,doo itt maynn,Hey bud, dunno what you're up to tonight but ya should come to bar open and see us play if ya want. PS bring camera maybe?,Sweeet. No stressors. Seeya round.,Wha? Hey ya still got that projector?,Just tried to go back through our message history and broke facebook, I miss your scent. Please come back into the warm sweet folds of papa Liam, ya know, in the holidays when ya have time or whatever We should like, catch up for realsies IRL one of these days.,Yeah baby! Gunna be ace!,also like the one where we just ballin,so cute, into the album!,;),Hey j boy do you have any backround/patterned photos I could use for a svanobs gig poster?,savnobs,Hm, think he's getting a bunch of shit from the grandprents, maybe just bring a plate or some beers or something?,Thanks bruv, hopefully seeya at one of the three gigs we're playing in november,I like to think o myself as the john updike of event descriptions,or more likely the emily dickinson; marginalized, isolated and dramatic,Whups,no biggie, I'll see ya on the 26th maybe,Hey bud, got into Sound Art at RMIT for next year, we should get coffee in the city or something and wank everywhere,Fukien finally.,How's shit widu,Shityeah,,so proud,of your software skils,Hey bud, dunno what you're up to this holidays but was wonderingif ya wanted to do a little work on a Savnobs video clip. Probs be $$$ for ya time.,If ya wanna come werk a camera, do some cinematography. Also if ya still got that projector I got some video synthesis stuff I wanted to project onto us.,Yahman, whatsup?,Hells yeah? You wanna come round? Or should I see if I can get the night off?,YASs,   "Cold pool!,Sheeeit, think that the night Cbel is in town, so might be hangin with her coz shes going overseas mayn, what about thursday?,Cool JumboDawg,nah, looks good though. Same guy that did crash,Wanna do something this week?,Im down, ill see if <Name>s cool to pick him up from daycare. Talk soon,Probs wont make it coz we got some open night for childcare tonight. Shitty dogs. What days might be good for ya next week?,Nah, failed hard,cut down significantly though,<Name> relapsed,and I was like, "Fuck",Yeah, like 1 or 2 a day at the moment. Habit is pretty much broken. Both been total assholes for like 2 weeks though,Yeah man, just hanging around. <Name> is at daycare if ya wanna get cawfee,Sweetass,Yeah call or else ill forget and end up pissing away my day beubg productive,do that too much, way too good at life,ya wanna go citay?,Sounds like a plan man. All good here,Yeah man, havent had much time to look but was super into that paul smith one. Also the mj bale with the tiny polkadots. Seems the british brands tend to fit me better due to my irish peasant frame. Gunna do aome research online and see if i can get a shortlist or brands/styles that i like and cam go try on in person,Hey man whatcha up to today? Im gunna go to brunswick and grab a new bike wheel if ya wanna get a caff or summat.,siksik,hey jdolds I used this pic for a savnobs gig poster is that coo?\  " "Thanks man. Got the whole rule of thirds thing happening coz worked put grid lines in photoshop,Today or tomorrow? I got class at 1:30 tomorrow so shiuld be able to squeeze in some lunch.,Yeah man. Poo butts. Oh well, its me bday tomorrow so will probs just sleep in and make meself breakfast or summat. Catch up later in the week maybs.,Probably Saturday actually,Ps probably dont needa borrow ya bike.,just got this holy shit this song,poor bastard. You alright? Weekend has been good, back at home now and looking after <Name> while <Name> studies/ is at work. I think everything is going to work out with me and <Name>, so super happy about that for now. Fucking uni is killing me man, got like 3 crative assessments due in week 5 and can't use my computer coz I left my macbook charger somewhere,Meh, enforced study holiday for a few dayze at least. Watsup wif u?,Will buy ya lunch next time man wif my 50,Had good source material to work with eh?,First one I see hands, and vulnerability. Second one drowning or resurfacing.,Dude what? Just saw your status,Girls suck,Totally misread that situation,Oh fuck, its outta batts,Yeah man, going to easter lunch at mums, you're welcome to tag along if ya want. Free roast!,In coburg matey, just near the station/sydney rd,O'wise free as a bird tomorrow for hangs/ citay coffees.,Do it man, come round. We'll be there later on, like 2. If ya need something to do in the meantime come round to my joint and we can bitch/give ya a lift there/ eat chocolate/ drink cawfee.,Sure thing bruv. Msg me when ya close by.,five min away? cool beans. See ya soon,Badass,Talking on two forms of communication,shitman,dude can I borrow your tripod some time? need to do video for my spatial practice pres,YESYESYES. cool man, when are ya in town? Im in tomorrow and friday,Sick as I'll be in around 12:30-1?,Or after class, 5?,Cool mayn, ill letya know when im headed in?,Also wtf why is everyone got essays due at the same time,Hey dudeson can I ask ya a favour?,I gotta do this spatial practice thing, and what I want to do is walk aroudn the city looking for resonant objects, and cause them to fedback through this portable feedback rig that I made with a speaker and microphone. I needa film it and take process photos but I also needa to clamp stuff on etc. Would you be free any day this week to help me out? Tomorrow or wednesday maybe?,Oh thats cool, I'll see if someone else can help out,Dascool <Name>is gunna help out,,Continue life,is that cool? can find something else for it,Sick thanks man would be nothing without you,Art school has leeched into my brain,JajajajajajJaja. I'm in the city all day tomorrow if ya free,Can bring it,coooo im in the studio all day so just text me if ya close by and I'll give it to ya","" "BAM,Fucking Windsor knot tutorials on da tube,   Dark brown ones,super nice,Fuck last night was amazing man you da best,Hey dude I gotta do an exhibition review for art history know af any decent exhibitions on/ wanna come see a bunch of exhibitions with me and share your nuggets of art wisdom?,gunna look that up right now,   check out this sick google map I made,I'm the best at MAPS,I'm more proud of that than my son,daniel von sturmer with the lamps and jazz?,dude that designed fed square had a stroke and is not drawing intricate line compositions exhibited at daine singer,*now,Been playing around with databending some images, its super cool, you should look it up.,Yeah, or out the raw data into audio software and add reverb etc then export back out,Yeah bb just chilaxin,Slol,Hey man should be round this weekend! That'd be cool!,Yes and yes you can borrow it for a bit if ya want to,Come by and grab it whenever you want,Xx,Nw babez 4 lyf,PS how was ya NYE? Hopefully not defined by spills,Haha, so liberating not having to get insanely fucjed up and the end of every year I can tell ya that much. Cool beans just lemme know and I'll make sure I'm here,Kool beans maynn,Yeah baby that sounds great been meaning to catch up,Pretty good haven't had much time but got out Friday and planning a big one tomorrow morning.. Feeling Heaps fitter though in general,See ya bb let's undo all the good work with massive burgs,train the imaging faculty ey?,yeah, kidna similar to what we was talking bout before,pretty darn black and white about it though matey,"The object of the game of life is to see clearly one's good and to obliterate all mental pictures of evil. ",good chats tho earlier,down to hang whenever,   "KEEP IT,Dude r u in Nepal?,Holy fuck in shit how is it are you drunk,I lol beans glad you're having fun shity ya got the flu though sure they have some crazy Nepalese medicines to keep us going. Say hey to   <name> for us will yez,Anarchic?,Shit load of homeless and disenfranchised people and stuff right?,Haha yeah at least we got back to the hotel room before the ritual sacrifice began,Man, had a really great run this morning, about 3k running and two K walking! At this rate I'll be at 10k by October no sweat! Actually a shit load of sweat! Do you do any stretchong/warmup stuff before ya run? Where did ya learn if so? Have you run up any Himalayan mountains with the flu yet?,Sorry Endorphins high,okay cool good to know! have a blaster in nepal dude I'll stop bugging you,Alright cool. Today when I started getting real bad Calf a hey after about 2k I went and stretched for a bit and was able to run way more,what is consistency now,Happy birthday brbrbrb love ya see ya when ya get home,Not too great this week, had some shitty family news and have been too depressed and unmotivated to do it, but last time I went I was doing pretty good. Reckon I'll smash one out tomorrow as I haven't been in a while and have been aching for it. How's Nepal going?Ya catch up wif <Name>?,Fingers crossed. My uncle died today, dens brother. It's been a while coming but him and <name> were super close.,Thanks man just sick of people dying,He's good obsessed with octopi so has been saying octopus over and over again for days on end which is cute and insanity inducing,Hey budoo what's happening how is Nepal? Heard ya back soon from Donbo. Was thinking of having a beer for my birthday at some point this weekend if you are back and free and you can regale me wif ya Nepal stories,Sickaz,Dude how many epiphanies have u had?,Yeah requires a special kind of privilege to be having an existential crisis about how your degree will effect contribution to the world and whether it fits your vision of who you thought you would be at some arbitrary point in your life which you decided when you could barely string a sentence together,Awe thanks man. Not going insane just not producing much stuff as still fucked up about <name> and 2017 being so fucking discouraging so far.,PS should I cut my hair short,How short do ya reckon. Like almost shaved sides and a bit on top I was thinking,Yeah true. My hair grows super fast though so no matter how short I cut it it goes back in like a month anyway,Plus who gives a shite what I look like I'll just run away from antagonists with my new running skills,Well I was until this fucking heat wave came along,My depression has been out of control the last few weeks so super unmotivated,My uncle died, plus generally super low self esteem and I am a bunch of anxiety about starting uni again and being Pissed at myself for not being productive all holidays,Had,Impostor syndrome,Plus me and <Name> had to pay out like a grand in a week on house stuff so we're super broke,Plus my birthday,Lots of shit,Nothing unmanageable though,,Just overwhelming,Good call,Fanks doc,I do 8 8 8,Like eight seconds inhale, hold, exhale,But I've found it super hard lately,Anyway soz for whinibg,Then enlightenment yeah,Alright I'll give that a go, try and get to the root of the thing,We should go for a run when the weather cools down,Dude you are probably closer to my level,Now is the time,Fuckoath,Well I'd dint run today but I still walked like 8k just fucking around according to my phone,Man what is this wisdom you ate throwing down love it,Are,You wanna get together tonight for a brew?,Coolbons. We can meet up somewhere or whatever up to you,Okay,Cool beans maybe we can drive and go get dinner then,Rather than drink beerz,I'll look at places,Yeah that might be good. Wanted to have a few beers,Don't know if they have places that sell beer in the city though,Yeah but they are usually full of young people,And the music is too loud,Can't hear yourself think,Sicktits might have to be a bit later coz <Name> is working til like 5 or so,Soz <name>,Why don't we swing by Fitzroy or something and then we can get a beer and swing by Chris shearers birthday thing later if we feel like it,Oh well it's later on I think in Carlton gardens so we can get a beer first at a pub and then possible go there a bit later on if we want to. Just looking for a pub that isn't to exxy in carlton,55,K, somewhere in Brunswick,Yeah hence why I was like Carlton,Lawl,Fitzroy Carlton all the same to me,Nah hate tooheys,Gross mid strength,Beer snob,Nah I don't wanna feel it tomorrow,Carlton seems like a goer. I just wanna beer tbh don't care how it gets in me,In a tree in a park in a pub in a fish and chip shop in a apartment,Might as well go to Carlton and have great tan street flashbacks,Grattan,Plus it's easy for us both to get to,And isnt the city which is craze,Just jump on the 67 ya Mongo, takes ya all the way to carlton,I gotta walk like 20 mins to the station,You are just spoilt coz ya got a car,Cars ruin people's sense of time,Just run to carlton,It'd be less than 23k,Or whatever,Just smash it out,Fuck I walked home from Carlton so many times when I was a lad,Got blisters and shit,What a dumbass,Cool let's get <Name>tojos and then cram a six pack in Carlton gardens,Or that Indonesian place,Yeah I'm about to leave my place,Should be there in like 45 mins or something,Meet at dontojos,Which one? The one she has now?,I found it on Scout jobs,This is <Name>,Liam is doing the dishes, this is <Name> replying haha,Hahaha we just hired new casual but one really sucks so we're all going to have a "conversation" about it. You might be in luck,Yup, we specifically hire people with external skills like that. So we have a videographer, a researcher, a carpenter and our manager used to be the photographer so our bosses never pay for external labour haha. Im sure other places do the same thing, you want multi skilled people when your team is so small.,I my job is technically hospitality at a market research company. So I greet clients and people coming in to do sessions. Order dinners, admin, edit and upload videos. It's basically a very fancy assistant haha.,So I just had to have hospitality experience and they liked my research experience,Finally started a blog\   "gunna start posting constantly about shit I do and make,and become tumblr famour which is better than real famous,Haha no music as of yet just art and stuff,If I wanted to buy a camera for shooting pictures and also documenting artworks and jazz what should I get? Obviously cheaper is better and I don't need liek super high def,yep,prefereably shoots video as well,dude I had samsung,have,maybe I should just use me phone,just need something which can take external audio,I know, just need to find a good app then. Default samsung one doesnt let me record external mixrophones so stuck iwth phone mic which aint good enough for sound works;,cool I'm gunna look it up,me and <Name> were thinkign of getting oen for the family for xmas,as in our own family,ooh yeah baby been upgrading with bday money,reaching terminal gear velocity,thought as much,haha,its alright ill do some reasearch,just one of those areas where there is literally so much choice,cant ya just get closer to the thing,is 50m the sensor size?,50mm,dang,okay cool lets meet up this week sometime ey?,Hmm maybe though not really my wheelhouse, as in id probably have to order cones & a voice coil and then somehow put them into the speaker,what model speaker are they?,send pix if possible or look on back for model number then I can look up parts and see how much  it might cost,Where u moving to?,back to collingwood eh,Actaully didnt lose as much stamina as I thought I would. Feel better than I have in the past 2 weeks today as a result,jsut went out without phone or watch or anything and just ran until I couldnt anymore,was actually super good for mentality,No strangs,no distractions,you getting back in condition after nepal?,I just been stressed AF lately, so taking half an hour to just run around has been hard to justify. But its an exercise in frustration coz stress would be lower if I ran around a bit.,Feedback loop,Yeah! I'll put a portable setup together!,That's an awesome idea,Dude let's do it not like it's hard to get a gig,Plus you listen to enough electronic music to know the tropes,Haha seems like the thing to do,Nah you can pull me out of my ruts with your fish new take on things,Fresh,Also fish,I got two step sequencers now so you can just twindle knobs until you find something you like,Let's do caffeine 2.0,Coles give us so much,Cows,Fucking SwiftKey,just kidding lets leave that as a beloved nostalgia trip and make soemthing fun and new,ps how the hell do you get a domain name and website,cool that sounds like a sick plan. I might do that actually,Dude we need go to soi38 for dinner or lunch soon boat noodles under a car park tasty,Google it thai food,Yes,Cool, I'll out a reminder in calendars. How many did you want me to print out?,Haha, nice choice of pix,Coolbons don't worry about cash it's like thirty cents a page or something,Man how helpful was that dude at the audio shop,We obviously look poor,Maybe it was my obvious audio knowledge,He was like <respect,Or your open body language,Everyone is a sound artist as soon as they open their mouth to scream at birth,Man I wanna do a VLF portrait shoot soonish with green screeb,Green screen,Promo portrait,nah but I'll figure something out,maybe later in year,Hey man, we're on our way home tomorrow or Tuesday. Hows things with you?,Hey man I am jsut reading up on some identity theory for Uni and came across <Name> Marcia's Identity Status Theories, they are pretty frigging interesting to me in that our generation has been kind of pushed into continual adolescence - vacillating between Moratorium and Diffusion, without experiencing identity achievement.\   "Feel like ive been in moratorium forever now,Man I think that's symptomatic of our generation, like we are kept in a casual workforce and treated like teenagers, marketed to like teenagers etc,Basically keeping teenage retail hospitals call center jobs well into our 20s,Hospo,Or we are sold that we don't want it. Instead we want flexibility which is actually just a facade for instability,Yes,He already pooed,Old news,the system will be differnt by the time he is old enough to go through tthis stuff. We are literally just a transitional generation,What up geeeeeee,sick as what you wearing no homo,Stupid sexy flander,Not too bad. Started playing KSyrim today and wrote 2000 words for class.,also made like two kilos of pulled beef in the slow cooker,tasty cakes,Skyrim,basically had like three days in one,how u?,haha, I am a sneaky thief stealth dude who sneak kills everybody and is rich,haha its so funny seeing what people do,nah essendon is like right next to my place,like 5-10 min drive,yeah come by me and <Name> will just be chilled. I don't get home from class til like 5:30 though,Alright I finished my work now to play SKyrim,FUCK YEAH,Gunna quest so hard,also listent to this album at the same time \   "so inconguous,sick tits come by whenevs,see ya tomoz,we can have pulled dbeef,seriously I have way too much,Haha yeah I think we do matey,Hey dude are you free at any point in the next week to come find some landscape shots and help with some filming with me? I'll buy you lunch.,Nah that's cool I'll ask Cleese or something,Glea,I'm gunna start calling her glea,Yes,I did,Oh no I'm super stressed about getting raw footage for this work I'm doing,Actually all good talked to my tutor and she was like "your idea is solid af so the outcome doesn't matter as much as you think it does, lower your standards its just your undergrad",you going to <name>'s thing tonight?,cool, I was wonderingwhether to go.,actually wouldn't mind seeing will for some reason,and <name>,cool, I'll mull it over. <Name> said I could go for a bit if I want so its literally just me deciding if I feel like seeing everyone,ill let ya know in a bit,hmm okay i think ill come with you,are you driving?,true,okay cool, so you're getting the 58 then a tram down st kilda rd or something?,kool. well I gotta give <Name> a bath so I mightn be able to get to nth melbs by 7, but can probs be there 7:15-30. Is that too late?,okay cool, I can meet at your place, easier for me coz its kjust one tram rather than train and junk,cool ill probs be like 7:15,Jumping on tram now. Probs be 15_20,   it out, draft of that piece I was talking about last night. Lemme know if ya have nay pointers or aything. PS Oatmeal is the best hangover cure ever.,,New hardware house track from LP,eat my media,That's cool hmu when ya frre,commnets section of soundcloud,I am listening now,How do we recreate this photo for an EP cover? IS it just a long exposure where they have moved their faces slowly into the light?,   "Kurosawa festival on at ACMI at the moment we should go to rashomon on the 8th June,sounds like going from facing away to looking at the camera would be easier to do?,Put this on when you're driving,Couldn't help myself,I hope they never leave,I got this fitness biggest piece of chicken today,It was fucking behemoth,I was like, I'll get that salmon bagel I like then I got the counter and unconsciously mumbled 'fried chicken burger',Then I had to commit,Scratch the flesh and if it is dark or blue then usually you're good,Either way you be got the beginnings of a real good Pollo funghi,Trial and error. You could look online I spose, the bottom one looks promising?,True that's the last time I went picking. The others look like field mushrooms,Need help registered a domain name now. Needa link it to Tumblr where is tutorial thanx,Oh cool I'll get googling,Also did you pay for theme,But yrs looks so good thought you paid dosh,Oh cool so cargo collective is a site building tool,Thanks for tips man,Also good morning,Break a leg bud,PS, did you set up a domain mask for cargo collective?,It's okay sorted it out,Nah I just set up masked redirect,www.liamfpower.com,oh no its broken,oh hsit need to add www,liamfpower.com,Do you reckon it looks unprofessional to have videos hosted on different sites for a portfolio? Such as mixture of youtube and vimeo.com or am I overthinking,good call,gunna have to upload at RMIT beacuse upload speed is like 100k/s at home,might go in tomorrow,anyway check it outwww.liamfpower.com,FML,been going for an hour,my internet sucks balls today,baldurs gate shouldt be too big of a DL though right? Was it meant to be on floppy disk,niiiice,oh yeah we can lan online with Hamachi,oh wait your internet is down,   "yeah but I mean at home, like tonight,sick,yeah dont imagine itll use much data,almost done,like 300kbps,<Name> is watching a movie,so not gunna be accurate,fark,do you have nbn usuallly?,lamedawgs,get a 4g dongle or somthing for a week?,yeah no shit, Shit internet is so frustrating,   "these guys go unlimited wireless plans for like 90 bucks a month, which I'm sure split among ya housemates wouldnt be too bad,yeah fair call, Was kinda researchign for us too,I think so? or 4g LTE or something,that particular provider is wierdly vague,sposed to be lime 10mbps download though (max),sweet,Mine will be done in an hour and also <Name> will be in bed,sick alrighty then, good job going for a run tho,Its done and I made my character,sick tits im gunna make a single player game so I can get the hang of it a bit,haha probs only have til like 10 coz gotta get up early,Yeah baby, just making a cuppa tea,I still don't know how to play that good,Do we have in game chat?,Cool I'll be ready in 5,sick as, I just gotta find my mouse fuck trackpads,Thief/Fighter,so I can steal swords and kill wif em,WHERE IS MY MOUSE WTF,yeah you should go ranged,I'm on scimitars and daggers,That sounds useful,I fell like <Name>would wanna be sword guy,Haha no that's sick as,Plan strategy,Kool sounds good,Hey man what ya doing wanna lan in a bit? Probs van do an hour,Can,Cool I'll be ready in 10?,Das cool,Nah I'm getting my start up scholarship so gunna buy a 2015 one next week,PS got a new bike,Sah vintage,Dang so that's finally happening,2015 macbook pro hopefully 256gb,Or 128gb and a bunch of external drives,Not into the whole 2016 Thang,Man apple ssds are like 1 dollar per GB though.,Yeah it's insane, trying to discourage user serviceability,Yeah the 15 inch 2016 is way underpowered for price,Yeah I know. People have an inflated sense of worth with that shit,Like some guy posted his base model 2014 macbook pro 13 for 1800 dollars and was like, it cost 3800 back in the day so why shouldn't I get more now?,Like literally whining in an ad,Also blatantly lying about cost,That's 2012 tho,I think they are still reliable, just the difference in base processor speed between five years ago and now isn't as impressive as it would have been in 2012,The reason I'm going 2015 is ports, reliability, possibility for serviceability in the future and somewhat future proof specs in faster ssd and ram and faster processor speed,Plus a somewhat usable integrated graphics,Yeah, which means I could get a faster audio interface at some point,Yeah I thought long and hard about that one and I'm just not into the design. I'm in the minority that wants a larger, heavier, more solid laptop with a decent keyboard,Plus there's the 500 dollar price difference on the second hand market,Which I could use to get a Thunderbolt 2 external drive,Yeah, like the pros of the 15 outweigh the cons. Mac OS X runs pretty smoothly on my 2009 MacBook so I can't really take processor speed at face value like I would with a PC,Like what I would save in app loading time and rend<Name>g time I would lose in rooting round for singles in my bag and typing super slow on butterfly keyboard,Dongles,Lol,I'm looking at like 1200 for a near new 2015 on Gumtree,Which isn't that bad,Or I go windows and get some gaming laptop. Which would destroy my productivity,Lol sorry been looking at laptops for like 2 months so have lots of reasoning behind it,Yeah like the Dell xps and stuff which is a good windows laptop is like 1800,You can get a quad core, but I have licenses for Mac software and shit so,Yeah if I had the dosh I'd shell out for a 15 inchrr,Yeah build quality is totally a factor consid<Name>g I'm gunna keep the laptop for like 5 years min,Haha nice,I should work at Apple store,Get a job there for a week,Use discounts and then quit,How wif <Name> chillen,Gaddamn I do but can't today,Yeah dude, dont you have ableton?,Come round tomorrow if ya want?,Okay cool yeah pop round in the morning and we'll have a jam,Okay but w is gotta be done by 5.30,Nah let's do it at my place,Easier,Not busy just way easier at my place,Lol,Ohhh shit,Dude I'll bring some stuff to the city no stress, let's have a jamolo,Okay cool whatever is easiest for you also bring laptop and we can lan too,Man got the sweetest jam setup happening for tomorrow,Gunna be so much fun,Hey boss,,,,Mixing em a bit now gunna up em to Google drive,Emailed u Dropbox links to them tracks,Good hustle today kiddo,Green eggs and jam,Heck yes. Note down the time ranges of bits that you like and send them to me and we can try and redo them next time and make more structured stuff,Sang that's quite the difference,The 2015 macbook pro is i5 5257u as far as I know so even faster,   "Fark rode 20km to the city and back today and kinda wrecked. Needa training Montage,Fuckin have to buy new pants for tree trunk legs,Gunna get ripped as,Man yesterday was so fun,Have to jam again before Eunice goes back,Uni,Eunice is such a stick in the mud,"Yup,Hanging with <Name> tonight unfortunately, can lan tomorrow night if you have some time?,Oh cool thanks man. Who's Tim?,Oh cool, do you know him through the citipower stuff?,Boss. I got 3 outta 7 songs for new EP,Go ahead, see if he's into it.,Soundcloud.com/verylowfrequency,Man we oughta jam again this week if ya free,PS buying macbook tonight,Got my Centrelink scholarship,I know so psyched,Pretty much mint second hand.,Please view this ad:Macbook Pro (Early 2015),\   "Some dude in Kew, all the dues I knew from kew were anal af,Pretty good condition and price. Early 2015 256gb model too,Yeah that's how I knew he was type a,Box actually helps Reale value too coz ppl are fickle,Resale,Make his dog watch him <name> off, nothing too bad,What questions should I ask do ya reckon. Like what he primarily used it for, whether he used it on battery or plugged in most of the time etc,I'll bring a USB key and see if it mounts, and headphones to plug in,Also take a look at the battery health,Also possibly SD,cool yeah, not much else to do. Hope its all ship shape though,fuck been wanting a new latpop for liek 2 years,had to bribe <Name>to get her to drive me over to Kew tonight,blergh. good luck,not really, you dont have much of an obligation to her imo. in any case you dont have to stick aroudn while she projects her shit onto you,then again taking moral high ground always feels good,haha, go and rage on at the gym afters,get onto that singles spin class,Sik will do. Free on Wednesday possibly for jam if I'm not nerd in out on new macbook still by then,I'll pick a name when I see her. Have a feeling it'll be called mac the knife or Mac the ripper,PS I am playing the forest at the moment u should multi-player it wif me,It's like an extreme survival game,We can build a base and trap noobs,the forest rules but rust might be funner with multiplayer,gunna torrent windows 10 and smash bootcamp,sick,oh eyah I think you mean enterpirse ltsb,that they use for atms and shit,super lightweght,none of that suggested apps and xbox ads and shit you get with 10 home,cool, yeah that would be cool. You can manually dl bootcamp drivers from apple website too,I did it when I bootcamped this one with windows 7 which technically shouldnt have worked,yeah fair call. Was thinkign about going legit with an oem license or something,Ooh yeah this one looks pretty schmic. Usually keep it in my backpack but there room for hard shell nd this in my backpack    "Gaddamn think that guy is outta stock,I'll Probs just get Kmart neoprene tbh but thanks for looking,Man the shell looks absolutely perfect though goddammit,Maybe I'll wait til it's back in stock,Lol,Yeah that's kinda bogus,Fucking brand new. Got her home now and migrating files,Everything worked perfectly,Handed over 1200 bucks,In cash,So scary,So minty fresh,its so good,I've jsut been multitasking like a motherfucker,keyboard is so nice to type on too,backlight is actutally super useful,and the screen,is too bright and hurting my eyes with its vivid colours,I used migration assistant and basically jsut copied over my odl computer to my new one,no problems with licensing apps or drivers or anything, literally up and runnning in 10 minutes,so glad I got the 256gb lol,I loaded my biggest project in ableton, used to take 3 mins on my old comp. Took like 10 seconds,I'm way too productive,totally. I can't see this computer being obsolete for at least another five years,I haven't hit any bottlenecks at all and been running large projects, rend<Name>g video and stuff to see what it does,lol, yeah I'll come by wednesday or something,woah what the hell I didnt send that,not even sure what you are doing you could be eating babies for all I know and I jsut thumbs upped u,I think I pocket thumbed ya,Cool shall Google,Sweet, sorry I'm a bit out if it today think I have pneumonia,Fuckin intense,So shitty,Yeah, and pulled muscles in my ribs from coughing so much so feels like broken ribs owwch,How's Ur new comp,Which one did you get?,Ha I dunno man I gotta take it real easy and rest. Probably just watch shitty TV then go to bed early tbh. Cool. When I'm feeling better we should have jams though.,Yeah I know it's like I can actually multi-task because my computer can handle it,I seriously find myself using my computer less because either only takes a couple. Of minutes to do a task lol,yeah its crazy how much faster they are,I really didnt realise,haha yeah me too. Gunan be real good when UNi Startss again too,Cool,Man, I totally need accountability though,On the mend thank fuck. Got some antibiotics into me and now can stand and walk,Well, stand and walk without falling over. Was super fucked yesterday,I'm down. I mean, I gotta have some sort of motivation when uni isn't on/I've finished uni,Yeah, like a separate group message where we literally just report shit that we did,And don't feel shit about posting mundane stuff,Today my goals include: eat something and get outta bed,And keep hydrated af,Haha, pretty achievable,What about you? I what you got planned,WORK WORK WOKR,Shit man, went to the opthamologist last week and he told me I had retinal haemorrhaging at the back of my eyes, which in and of itself isn't a concern and just kinda clears up, but now I have developed a huge light patch in the corner of my eye, which is a symptom of retinal tear. Basically could lead to retinal detachment which means I could be blind for the rest of my life.,Gunna go into the eye and ear hospital tomorrow,Nah, just bad luck. I mean, coughing and jerking my head around all week could definitely have made things worse.,Lucky we got one of the best ENT hospitals in the world in melbs,Nah <Name>s on it like crazy. Keeps bringing me little treats and stuff,Thanks though, jsut needed to vent,fuckin barely at my late 20s and the floodgates of chronic conditions begin,Haha true,should get some games on my macbook,will do,Back at uni and Makin some arts. Hbu?,How ya doing budolo long time no smell,Its all gone pete tong,coo,Yeah uni is good, bit fucky with admin at the moment but other than that in me stride. Did a grant proposal, wrote a giitar song and sent a composition off to Korea for an arts festival today so weirdly productive.,Thanks man, think I finally crawled out of the hole <name> left me in. How's stuff with you?,Woah slow down maharaja, I am not ready for your wisdom,My third eye is yet to be opened,haha,life is never yours, always belongs to someone else. Your boss, your friends, the bottle, your kids, your parents, the gaping void that has no name , and your base instincts for survival.,As soon as you lie back and embrace the nothingness and let it wash over you you will be truly free,,PS I finally unlocked the bridge story,its real short,Dude me too you're my best friend forever,Is it a cake?,Fuckyeah,Take some mad pics,Maybe, I'll borrow it for a bit and if you go the us and get fat eating hotdogs and chilli fires you can have it when ya get back,Will try it on next time im at your place,Poops I'm doing filming in northcote at the bridge for my performance art class,Yeah man im free wednesday morning or thursday arvo,ps wanted to talk about possible collab photography/soudn project for the summer,New year then, no rush,Hey bud when ya going to NY?,Ooo baby,Gotta catch up before,Pay enough rent as it id,I can share on my facebewk if ya want but I'm pretty sure I have the same friends as you,Yeah baby I'm a tune machine,I am the human jukebox,fanks bruv gotta keep releasing shit instead of clogging it up in me ard driv,What?,Oh soz I wasn't with you looking at that post lol,Yeah it's pretty random,Looks good on the ol resume,Oh wait I didn't see your comment,Zweet thanks brargh,How ya doing? I gits mid semester break this week if ya got a couple of hours free for a caff,Cool bananas I'll ask <Name> coz I'm home wif <Name> that dayyyy,Yeah I'm free Wednesday too. Let's meet up in the citay,WOAH SATTELITE COMMUNICATION,hows it going? What ya been up to,Haha, only the really important news,   "Woah, I thought you had unlimited stomach,Yea portion sizes are huge apprently,Apparently everyone <Name> knows who has gone to america comes back like 5kg heavier,You picked up any photography leads?,Niceeeee you're on it. How's the place your staying?,Haha, yeah feel like you'd get a lot of walking done in the first week an dby month 2 you'll jsut take the subway everywhere,   "whups just send you a goohgle link,to that how ot make it america show,Haha, pretty good isn't it? Kind of slows down towards end but first season is pretty gold,did you learn how to make it in america?,Hey manolo hows it going?,Fuck yeah you rule. Pizza and oranges would probs balance each other out nutritionally but you are Probs destroying toilets all over the greater New York area.,Melbourne is good. I got like 2 exhibitions coming up thank fuck.,Yayayaya,Got my proposal for Kings ARI in and they were like yes plz,And doing a performance at some demolition party in reservoir for some reqs,I'm psyched to hear your NY storeez,   "   "   "   "   "   "radio activity,   "   "   "   "   "   "Should get you going. Lots of stuff to explore there,   "Yeah bb,Vanity records are the shit,Cream of the 80s experimental Japanese crop,Hey babe. Spring has sprung, sun's out and everybody is still sweating in their black melbuniforms. We're at that sweet time of uni where nobody shows up to class so even though you are reals stressed it's nice and casual. I finished my art piece about the bridge and it s real cathartic on a super intense art high at the moment and riding it with no end in sight. Not much else to tell really. You're asking the wrong guy, I live a very solitary and internal life.,Yeah I feel like I spent a long time unlearning all the shit I learnt there,The fuckin bro culture,Nah media was pretty cool and slamming devo and eating fried chicken tho,And I had a few good teachers,fuckin 10 year reunion soon,,Oh geez,I had a different perspective on elwood coz I came from glen eira which was literally the shittest school I've ever seen,I was like "casual clothes and teachers who can answer my smart arse questions, cool",Yeah I think that all the time,Coz we had Ms smyrnios who was like "painting and drawing is art",Eh, maybe,Yeah I think it'll be pretty chill,Yeah that was pretty fun,Just fuckin st K so far from my place,Like 2 hours,Yeah I'll probably go but I am abviously ambivalent about the whole situation,How's NY?,Oh man when we went down and were looking at the plants,and we were like "the wonders of nature",Haha, it was good. I was super uninhibited and childlike,I can't remember,I think I had done it once before,At a party or something,Haha yeah I retreated to my tent to get away from it all,haha,,I should just have that emoji in my clipboard,Yeah I remember Russell coming into my tent post coitus and I was like "oh geez please leave",And I remember improvising a new version of Auld lang syne,and we all joined hands and made a circle and sang,,,Woah the future,Yeah I'm excited to see what ya come back with,you been getting any work?,Just live itup while youre there and worry bout it when ya get home,such a cool oppurtunity to see the city,Yeah would be good to get some perspective,I frickin love japan. Need a holiday after this year,I think I need a holiday to like a cabin int he woods though,So me and <Name> can talk abotu somethin gother than <Name>, food and money,Yas,,Really good. Just about to give in all my big assignments in and playing this performance art gig at a squat in real so on Friday,Resorvoit,Fark,Reservoir,,Nah all good gunna take video,You called   <name>.,Woah pocket dial led,,   "PS did the bridge performance the other day,Kookkll,Anyway on a big performance art bent at the moment,Got involved with some artwank collective and putting on some shows,Yeah, shared resources are essential to surviving in the information age,Play people won't come out of the house winless they are seeing like five different things throughout the night,Probably the strongest image in my memory,Both?,I mean I had anxiety about it but doing it felt right,Definitely needs some work shopping before either do it in a gallery context though,Thanks man, was a tough one to make,Oh yeah I wrote this song for you the one year anniversary of dens death,   "Haha I'd dint write it for you that's a typo,Going for 80s power ballad vibe,Haha thanks. Gunna make it first single off New vlf tape,Yeahhh,Oh wait not on Google drive. I'll send ya it when I'm home,I've had some pretty good breakthrougha mentally and confidence wise this year so I think that's showing,   "Nar mate,Will check out now,What's doin?,When you flying home?,That's tomorrow? I dunno how time zones work,Can't wait to hear your tales,Ooh nice. Pretty sure eyoull get home when I'm up in Canberra \ude2d,Nah <Name>'s family Thang,hey bay bay, back in melbs and got franks bday tomorrow. What u doin?,Yeah I saw that on insta fucking bullshit yo,Good. Trying to sort out VLF stuff and work on this exhibition for Feb. Got a couple of ideas I could use your help with over the holidays we should get a caff next week maybe,No just a transaction,I'm a businessman my time is $$$$,,How you doing? What you got goin,Oh no,Oh shitman,Well we got undersea cables and satellites,We gotta talk IRL about this shit,,\ude2d,When you free this week. Let's get a caff/beer on park,Done matey. Meet in the shitty?,Sick as,Let's get CJs or someting,Nice Juan,\ude2d,Joy tears,I actually missed the shit out of you so am excited,To crush your enemies, have them driven before you, and hear the lamentations of the women,I am, on the stage of life,Kind of am, performance art is the new live show","" "OMG FACTS!,That's why dudes weren't jacked af in ancient times,Can't swing your long sword coz your too swole,My tris were too engorged,To joust,I'm doing Chinups right now and listening to whitesnake,Holy shit dudes in ancient times used to train by carrying a Calf on their back every day until it grew into a cow,Then they'd eat the cow for mad protein boosts,Well I'm not gunna eat him,Yet,Woah typos. Dats cool well meet up later,Yeah <Name>'s texts are so incomprehensible,Last time he sent one to my mum for her birthday and it was like yaudhgssvskanshsjd,And she was like a www.wtf.com,Phooh. Yeah good. Working on the EP so pretty busy. Let's try again for next week kook. I'll be in the shitty all day on Wednesday at the studio so maybe we can grab some lunch,Probs for me. I'll be in the studio so NBD either way.,Nah I'm about to go out to gembrook for puffing Billy for <Name>,Will do bb",""""" "So wholesome,What's happening today? You coming into the city?,Fuck yeah,I'll probably get in round 11.bit no rush as I'm going to the studio,Holy fuck I out all the rough versions of the songs on my EP together today. So I nds ace! So fucking amped to get it out there.,Fuck yeah,It's like half an hour total,Got a list of record labels/distribution houses to send it to when it's done,And got that dude that played me on his radio show in Belgiums email,Hey if I book the photo studio at RMIT for the middle of december what days might you be free?,Cool, I'll see if I can book it for then and get back to ye,Theres one on ebay for like 50 bucks\   "nah I'm gunna be in the studio on wednesday so will ask then,hwo you doing manlolo,   "haha that sounds awesome,   "You might be making more than this I dunno,Woah dark,Ive only ever gone through RMIT recently but a couple of years ago I went to the GP and got a mental health care plan. Bulk billed 14 sessions with a psychologist renewable at the end of the year. Went to healthy minds in the city and it was pretty good but not sure if the person I saw was still there.,I love you and I'm here for you whenever you need also,Do it! You,You're already having a really good reaction realizing ya needa go to therapy,That's literally half the battle,Yeah mental health care plan,I'll send ya a link,   "Thanks to my obsessive researching personality,Pretty similar kind of emotional release,Make an appointment with your GP and talk to them about your depression etc and say you wanna get on the mental health care plan then they'll get the nurse to do a questionnaire and if you score highly enough on that test they'll give you a referral to a psychologist of your choice. You gotta have an idea of where you wanna go before you go in though. Healthy minds is good like I said but maybe have a look at some psychologist reviews online and have a think if ya wanna see a male of female psychologist and what style they specialize in gestalt or freudian or behavioral etc. Then ya book your first appointment and they bulk bill you over Medicare.,Nw bb,Dang home with <Name> today going grocery shopping and junk. Let's catch up next week,Domestic bliss,I could do Wednesday possibly. I'm Sposed to be doing Xmas shopping with <Name>in the city and going to studio but will be in the city all day so let grab a cafff,Also was planning on a shit break at 1pm,Yo do you know anyone with a gopro or underwater camera I can borrow? Got this shot in my head,Yeah was thinking that but the techs are all on hooliday so was just seeing if you know somebody,NW bb. PS Lets catch up next week if you have some free time,Fuck yeah baby. I'll be in the city Wednesday Thurs Friday so maybe we can hang then,Oh I meant next week. Sposed to be hauling a shit-ton of furniture tomorrow with <Name>,Pretty chill. Got drunk with <Name>and <Name>at home and played boardgames. Did you end up at denny's thing?,I'll be in wednesday thurs friday at RMIT workin doing some vid editing. We should get lunch?,DONE BB. I'll be in from like 11. Maybe we should get a burger at that hipster place you linked me too.,Still on for lunch today?,I'm up,Heading into city now but will just be chilling in the editing suites at RMIT so whenever ya get here I'll come meet ya,CBD/ lunchtime/ using public transport/ cause we're friends / to eat together for energy and social interaction,You'll be eating lunch in a black and white stripey jumpsuit if you give me power of attorney,What's that diner you went to,I dunno like midday?,Okay cool,Love the shots of him smoking a doob,Man this is kind of uplifting,Yeah picking up bits here and there. You paraphrased lots of this stuff pretty well today,About to head off into RMIT to do some video editing all day. Gunna be ascorcher I think. HBU?,Come into the city later if ya want and hang in the industrial RMIT aircon,cool I'll let ya know when I'm in. Heading off soon .,I needa buy a USB gaming headset thing for my exhibition today too but other than that nothing else on,When its 40 degrees outside I usually work pretty frigging slow coz the blood coagulates in my brain and the neurons just kind if ineffectually fire randomly,yeah I'm in building 4. Bring ya laptop and I'll get ya online,fark do you have to walk though,Get the bus or something,It's not too bad in the shade,Kool banans,Gunna be here til like 5,Na bro I just use YouTube with this headset app now for free,That'd be my tinder tag line,\ude2d,It comes in handy,What ya mean? You can use headphones with YouTube. I got this app called headset that just oaks the tunes with no ads,"Oh I use it on my comp,Haven't tried on Android but pretty sure youtube blocks everything cept youtube red from accessing videos when screen is locked,Oh shit man,\ude2d,Fuck I'm so nostalgic today,I think it's a yearning for when my life was simpler.,I'm feeling really isolated and out of touch with people at the moment I dunno why. Like I keep moving from transitory friendship to transitory friendship never really holding anything,Sorry just venting at you,\ude2d,\ude2d,Maybe I should do something for my birthday this year, or we could have a joint party or something,True, I get this way every time my life changes or I can feel an adjustment coming on. Its like if you think you are lost you keep looking back to see where you've been. Weird impulse really.,   "Is this cool or lame,It serves literally no purpose but I'm trying to learn javascript,INTERFACE,INYAFACE,lol its an art exhibition I can do what I want,I've made so much promo shit for this exhibition but haven't done anything with it.,I also made a speech recognizer today\   "Nah I'm finished,Just waiting for the keys so I can install,so much fucking coding the last few weeks.,Both mate,the future of art is on the web mate,   "I dunno,Fuck man I hung the TV too low at the gallery,Feels so shitty,Dunno if I have time and took forever to do the first time,Plus not sure if the stud goes up far enough,Basically had no idea what I was doing lol,yup,I might rehang tomorrow if I have time,Yes dude come at 7.opening til 8 then going for beers after,Good. Bit hungover today but me and <Name> went for fried chicken so that helped haha. How bout you?,I went to fat in East Brunswick. Fried and tasty. Was so good,Yeah that'd what I thought as I inhaled my burger,Sik. I'll see when I can get there coz I gotta wait til <Name> gets home round 6.15 then get the bus.,Kk. I'm still waiting for <Name> to get home and then gotta make her dinner so I dunno how late I'll be.,Sick. I'll probs get there round 8ish.,Yo check out my new site: still working on it but I reckon its pretty cool. Built it from scratch with HTML/CSS/Javascript liamfpower.com,www.liamfpower.com,It's like my avatar,On everything,Including reddit,It's so Frickin boring I've posted like twice,Its got a really smooth and natural transition between colors and shadows,its all centered nicely,and its kind of mundane subject matter which makes people look closer at the details of objects that they normally wouldnt look at closely so you are making them feel like they are getting a glimpse into the details of a life which usually passes them by,haha,oh fuck I hate writing my own enough,gaddamn,,Plan Created:,,I can do Thursday lunch or you can come cab come visit me in the gallery Friday?,Haha,State library or rmit library site good not sure what's open Sunday tho,Just find a chill Cafe or something and sit there with your macbook,That's step one in researching nfp structure,invading a foeign country? Just chillax and plan in a cafe,   out spectral filterbank brargh,Nah, not yet. He said he was going to put the links in the assessment tasks bit of balckboard but didnt say when lol,Yeah I did! You gotta connect the black thuderbolt cable connected to the HD into your comp and install the Protools drivers.,Hang on I'll find the guide thing I made.,,That's got the soundcard routings for the pod/ableton on there but the first steps should be the same,No worries man, hope it works out for ya? You coming to class tomorrow?,Who's too many???,Whoops,Yeah I'm thinking of skipping it tbh. Too many Frickin performances in this performance class. See ya Thurs probs.,Hey bud do you need anything from MPCstuff.com? Gotta buy a hard drive adapter for my 1000 and its like 39 bucks with 20 bucks shipping. \ude2d,woah slow down mr moneybags,cool I'll see if anybody else wants in and put an order in tonight. So frigging spenno,Ooh poops I just left home so will be like 15 mins. I'll see if I have one in my bag otherwise you can run to jaycar?,Hey man, if you wanna head into 6.1.9 a little earlier I've gotta work from home today,I gave the wav to him in class and had a Google drive folder with all my brief and stuff in it that I sent him a link to by email,Yeah pretty sure he ain't fussy,heyo, Liam from expanding practice here. Was adding ye coz I was wonderingif you wanted to be part of the facebook message group thing we have for second year sound people?,Cool bananas will add you :),PS here is the facebook group for sound art students at RMIT\   "Darrin verhagen,Haha sorry in class,Darrin heads up the audiokinetics experiments lab which have a bunch of really great equipment including bone conducting headphones. You should email him and tell him about your project and that you wanted to include bone conduction and see what he says\   "Also this is a pdf of Nic Collins, one of me fave books art or not. \   "Also this is the transducer they have in the school of art equipment store in building 2\   "Typical applications include bone conduction apparently,Alright enough link spamming,No worries bud excited to see what ya come up with,Hm, you could get a car battery and inverter. or if you aren't afraid to open it up you could check if it is a DC or AC motor. If it's a DC then you could probably just wire in a DC socket, If it's AC then you'd have to go the inverter route. Or solar panels.,Heyo, yeah, the big iMac in the 6.1.9 has protools and ableton and you can do it in either. Or you can do it with your own laptop if you have a Mac,No worries bud, let me know how it goes,haha all good,There should be switches on the back. Are the green lights on?,Okay make sure all the switches L c r etc. Are switched in on the monitor controller,Sorry had to run to pick up my kid from daycare. He gets his bag on and waits at the door and cries if I don't show up on time . Good luck with yer project bud.,He was fine had to bribe him and refused to put on his shoes but that's normal. All good bud, I was lurkin round studios anyway like a troll,Hey Bud, remember the other day when I showed ya how to route the surround in 6.1.9? You don't happen to have that piece of paper where we wrote what speaker was what channel? Might save people some work.,Cool beans. Thanks matey,Ooh yeah will disseminate. Thanks,Hey are you still in immersive environments? Pretty sure you told me you dropped one class but can't remember which one,Haha thought so,Hey bud, whats up?,Yeah I think I got it working, you can't run the speakers and the headphone amp at the same time. I had to fuck around with it a fiair bit. First make sure you got some signal coming through the speakers, then turn them off with the L C R RS LS LFE Buttons on the monitor panel controller , then turn up the volume and see if you get anything through your headphones. (input 1 on the headphone amp thing is where it should go and you should get some kind of blinky light on the amp I think.,Nice one! Nw,Hm. Nah that's never happened to me before sorry.,Apparently if you hold the n key while starting up it might work? Stabbing in the dark,Hdx if it's there,Avid HDX,If not then maybe the black Thunderbolt cable might not be plugged in at the back of the iMac,Oh yeah soundflower fucks everything up. No worries!,Yeah does not compute,You should be able to make a surround track and the panner is built in?,Oh right, yeah you can just set the analog outputs of the track to a3 and a4 if you want to send that track to the the back speakers I think,I think there's a channel mapping setting in playback engine where you can set what outputs go to what speakers. There should be a guide on the old laminated sheet in 6.1.9,Haha,Hey bud! Yeah not too bad, just blasting on down the superhighway of life. How you doing? Facebook stalking tell me you are doing real estate stuff and you were run the army for a while?,Cool bananas. Sound spike you're doing pretty well for ya self bud! Haha yeah finished that first journalism undergrad and my partner got pregnant, so switched gears and stayed home with my son <Name> for a couple of years. Now I'm halfway through a fine art course at RMIT majoring in sound and sculpture. Kind of became disillusioned with the state of the media industry so figured if I'm gunna get paid fuck all I might as well doing art.,Totally man! Yeah, spose it clarifies your character and sort of motivates you to make your life better for them. Yeah he's two and a half now so quite a spiritied little bastard!,Oh yeah, he's big into wrestling too at the moment.,Me and   <name> are still tight af and see will every couple of years or so, but not much happening otherwise. Everyone is on different paths and strewn all over the country from what I hear,Haha, or they good at hiding that they don't have much to do. Yeah man, I still got family round there.,Mostly home with the kid and full time study. Occasionally get a freelance gig doing a sound workshop or mixing or something. Plus playing solo gigs every so often,hehe, thanks man. I play all kinds of junk. Played guitar in a punk/noise band for a couple of years with Denholm, now playing sort of 80s electronic new wave type stuff solo. Also got an experimental side project happening as well with some kids from uni.,Hell yeah me <Name>  <name> you, would be sick,Heyo Melody, hows it gahn matey? Was gunna ask ya a big one, we're playing a show at the ballroom 19th september and we were looking for someone to take shots of us doing our thang for shameless promotional purposes. Dunno whether you were intending to go to the show anyways, but we would love to get some photogs of us that are less than a year old etc.,   "Bonzalanis! well ya know, if you are into it then ya could maybe do some shots of us rehearsing bakehouse as well, was thinking ya know, controlled lighting and space conditions might be good as well. Been loving them shots on ya tumblr. We need moodiness and intensity which I'm pretty sure is your forte. Currently working with my admittedly incredibly limited visual sense. If any of them shots turn out from the random rolls would love to take a look as well.,well I think next time we'd be there on a wednesday night, like the 16th of september, we're there like 6-12 usually so anytime round then is fine.,Bonzalanis, ill ask <Name>and <Name>and let ya know. Shit yeah, thanks  so much!,Its a phrase I use from time to time to express the ambvalence that comes with joy or excitement, its a portmanteau of bonza, my favourite aussie word, and alanis morrisette, who I hate. Excitement about the future is great but also a futile gesture because nothing is determined and its impossible to know whether what you are excited about will happen, or whether itll turn out exactly like you wanted.,Nah jks just made it up for no reas,hey melody did ya need me to bank transfer ya some cash to get that film developed?,Cool cool, send me your bank details and ill sling you the 27 bucks then let me know when you're off to hillvale. Hopefully some shots came out. Do they do digital scans as well or do ya do that yourself.,Shit yeah, looking good already,Squanza, sent ya the cash, should turn up in a day or two under "Photo Cash",pretty creative name I know,Dude, no stress, as long as few come out its no big deal, I mean, its not like we had absolute artistic freedom, it being pretty much the only time we coul all get away in like a month to take photos,Hey some of these turned out great,I look like I detached my jaw in some,man I would be a good gay man,Consid<Name>g you had the ugliest room to work with, I think they turned out pretty good,Looks like I'm gunna eat your soul for sure.,or a truckload of babies,some of these are great! love the intensity,Awesome, thanks mel! He had a blast.,Yup, should be home all day. We're at 7 Le Cateau street, Pascoe Vale south. Probs get a bus to Grantham street/Melville Rd then get the 55 up.,Kool,All good,No stressies,See ya spoon,Yass!,Thanks dude,First and second ones are boss. Third one scares me which might actually be a good thing,Ya still got Dropbox? Can I use these for promo shotz?,NO NOW,I mean kool beanz,Yep! No worries! Tons of people have been saying that will look into it.,Oh it did go through!,Double rsvp now,Hey Ryan old boy, hows it going? Just wanted to say if you wanted to play a gig together again anytime in the future I'm happy to open for ya (solo) or warm up the bastards or whatever. If ya hear about anyone dropping out or anything let me know and I'll come along.,Muchos gracias gringo, I'll defs let ya know, trying to make the transition from playing with random dudes to having some sort of cohesion to gigs, was thinking the whole brooding, self-deprecating white male thing would work well.,and hopefully next gig neither of us will break strings, and will be gentle but firm dictators of the stage,Need central heating for these old bones,Hey Ryan my boy, we're trying to put together an EP launch night, either at the tote or the curtin in the next month or so, and I was wonderingwhether you wanted to play with us solo or with <name>?,Sick. I'll let ya know. Probs toward the end of November.,Hey there cool cat, did ya wanna play a show with savage nobles on the 26th nov solo at the tote?,Awesome, thanks bruv! Will let ya know when I have more details,  " ",Hey bud, hows it gahn? Here be the worksheet for Thursday night. If ya wanna use me amp or anything go ahead. Thanks for playing by the way,might have 2 beers,might wear tight pants,dunno yet,Turned out to be a pay to play situation tonight so don't know if I have any cash for ya. Thanks for playing though. If ya have anything that needs repairs I gotta hot hot hot hot sold<Name>g iron ready for ya business as way of payment.,Shityeah, glad ya had a good one. As usual let us know if ya need someone to play a <name> gig or anything. See ya round the traps,By the way, whats the name of the song staring "Guess what, it's pretty unfair, they jsut gave me the electric chair" or something of that nature. Had it stuck in me cranium all day,Bossoes, I'll try and.. woah... real country.,How are ya gunna record it?,Good call,Hey <name>, hows it going? Was wonderingwhether <name> might wanna play a gig with Infraghosts, my solo stuff and possibly Sissysocks on may 11th? You guys seem pretty full up with gigs but just checking if you might be into it.,Figured as much, next time maybe eh?,Wanna play a gig with me and InfraGhosts sometime soon? Avoid can headline?,Sick. Middle of June sometime? How bout the gracement? Need another act as well.,Wait, is it 3 or 4 acts for the gracement?,Cool. I'll email bookers tonight!,Got an email back, would you be into June 9th in the grace darling basement?,Sweet let me know,Any word back on whether ya can play?,Sikkkkkkkk will let bookers know,anything in particular you chumps want for band bio?,or you can have my stilted and probably erroneous description of your music,COOOO,   "Hey man, yeah nice to meet ya. Very possible!,Hi maw, how ya doin? Eating my way through asia at the moment and have only gotten sick once which is fine and I think that was probably from all the uhh... sugar cane juice I have been drinking. Ate Kway Teow and Chicken Rice in Singapore at a hawker centre, Singapore used to be chock a block with street vendors but in an effort to clean the streets of intestines etc they swept them all into these hawker centres which are like a food court on speed. Didnt see one white guy in there and just thrust my cash and pointed to things. <Name> had satay which she said was great and it was all very cheap and wasnt McDonalds.As for Vietnam, spent 4 days in Saigon and we are up in Hoi An now. Saigon was street food heaven, I stopped about every two metres for a pork roll (40 cents) or bowl of Pho (90 cents) or some Com Tam (broken rice) which was a bit of a wallet buster at $1.50. Went to the Cu Chi Tunnels and shot a rifle which was ironically exhilarating seeing as we learnt all day about the terrible consequences of young untrained white guys with guns. Overall had a capital time, eating lots of food, drinking heaps of Saigon Green and Bia Hoi (7000vnd a glass, or about 35 cents) which is refreshing as a bastard and doesnt seem to get you drunk. Now we are in Hoi An getting <Name> some dresses made at the tailors and riding bikes around old town staring at pagodas and shit while my stomach rumbles. Give my love to all the kids at home including <name>, will keep in touch as developments occur.,Hey mum I'm outta credit but can totally do tomorrow at 12 15. Meet on the corner of Elizabeth and Collins maybe? Should go somewhere pretty cheap cause its rent week this week,   "here ya go, sorry it took me so long to get it to you. Been a crazy last couple of days.,Hi Mum just having a look at houses and stuff, looks like there is a few and the median price for a decent place is 220-250pw. I think we either go private rental or our options are limited. We dont want <name> to end up in a rooming house like he was in before.  I reckon if we could coordinate going to some inspections and stuff in st kilda we could probablu get an affordable private rental for him.,PS <name> is eligible for a bond loan from the DHS if he wants to get a private rental, so if we can all scrape together first months rent he mightnt need that inheritance to move,   "   "All the pics of <name>. Couldn't remember whether your email was .com or .com.au","""""" "PS here's a mix of that song I was telling you about today \   "Oh no!,Haha,Hey how ya doing? Liam from expanding practice here. Ya don't have to add me if you don't wanna but was wonderingif you wanted to join the message facebook group thing which we set up for the sound kids on facebook so we can all talk about how fucked everything is/ ask each other for help and junk.,SWEETOLOS sorrry I am not sure on facebook/life/ general social etiquette for adding people. Will add you now.,Haha, the sweet validation I so sorely needed. PS added you to the wider RMIT facebook group which is kind of a spamfest for people's art events but also sometimes people ask technical questions.,Just trying to get people together cause we don't have studios and sometimes people (mostly me) can feel isolated from the rest of the group if we miss a couple o' classes. Don't hesitate to contact me if you need a hand with any studio stuff this semester, I can share my bad habits with ye :),Well first of all you need two mics as matched as possible (probably th 2 c414s, and then you can get two mic stands and put the about 3 feet away from each other for a wider sound.,probably the easiest way. Are you micing the piano?,record to two mono tracks and then pan one hard left and the other hard right in protools.,oh okay, yeah you can just go to the track inut and set it from A1 or A9 or whatever it is, to a pair of inputs, like A9-10 or A11-12,input,but yeah, you can just record them as two separate tracks and then pan them left and right and it would sound the same.,I think if you go to where it says A1 above the fader you can change the track to stereo, or you need to create a new stereo track and then set the inputs to the pair you are using it will work. If its already a mono track that you made I'm not sure if you can change it to stereo easily,No worries dudes, seriously dont hesitate to ask me if you need help I learn by teaching things,Gunna try and snag a job teaching audio tech 1A when I finish my degree so need to know this junk,Fuckin sorted then,Just burnt my resume,I'll just use you guys as references and you can pretend to be some LA big shots on the phone,I don't sorry. You could always message him him at his Jolt number and see what he says (0431 678 164). Lemme know if you get his contact details. I also got a pdf of assessment details from the last two classes if ya need.,PS here are my notes on what he wants for the brief,,Kool machines no worries budolo,   "I'm pretty sure if you just attach bare wires to the analog inputs of the arduino you can get random sensor readings coincident with skin resistance. He could easily just be doing that as the longer the wire the more sensitive it becomes. As far as generating the sound I dunno. Possibly turning sensor readings into midi signals sent to ableton or something?,Did something similar here\   "Haha no worries I was pleasantly surprised when I realised you could just hang bare wires off an arduino for user input,Skin resistance rules. I did heaps of stuff with it last year.,Plus people's skin resistance changes upon how hot it is in the room, how much body fat they hav and and how old they are, which means the application will react differently based upon the person touching it.,Totally. Have an experiment with it and see how you go. I know if you want to make sound quickly you should check out the midi library and hairless midi serial. So you can turn the sensor data into midi events/Control messages and then use those messages to trigger sound and change volume and stuff.,No worries bud good luck with it,Haha,First time I've heard that,Will cherish this moment,hey man, I'm alright,  whats happenin?,just restin up, coupleof broken ribs,fell of a bridge into the merri creek,couple of weeks ago, broke six ribs,yeah yeah got outta hospital a week ago,still hurts, but ya know, walking around and shit,what have you been doin?,cool beans, gunna do landscaping or somehing?,not bad, cut the hedges round a my girlfriends joint the other week, looked like a piece of shit, probably coulda used a professional,Oh yeah, which song?,That's a good one, how ya doin man?,Oh yeah? Nah didn't hear anything bout that. What you up to nowadays?,Gardening? Sounds cool man. How's shit? Looking at your Facebook looks like you've been going through some shit or something. Chris was a bit of a ass though ey?,Yeah I hear ya. They're all fine. How's your grandma?,Roy morgan research, my place has dried up- for march too but you can try.,I know, its not like fruit picking,seems like src and fieldworks are dried up as well,You know it,Well, guess you could always apply for a debt collectors, they never run outta work,thats true, dont get em on the trail,Dunno whether I have you the right details the other night but: CATI are recruiting. If you know someone who you think would be suitable for a role they can email melsupers@roymorgan.com with their resume and details. Thanks,   "Hey hey, yeah I've done a bit of work with arduino and coding. What do you want to do?,Hmm.. Well I've done similar stuff measuring skin resistance distance with arduino and its fairly trivial to translate sensor readings to a range to change parameters in a bit computer program. I think like arduino and max msp could probably get you close. I looked into EEG projects earlier this year. Will try and dig up some of my research for you if you want.,Ooh good budget. The Neurosky Mindwave might be a good fit for it. Could definitely do something with a DMX lighting board?,Just a digital standard for manipulating lights,Every gig you've ever been to probably has a DMX setup behind the bar someplace,You could do it directly from the arduino with a Pwm lighting setup and some power transistors and stuff I think. Let me have a little dig and see what comes up.,Would require more circuitry though,Har har, d'you see broookes video of Denny's party?,it jsut shows the levels of creativity b/w the two houses,fuckin you know it fuyckin,fuckin lovin it mate,ooh yeah baby, slick as slick can be, no more work left this week, time to party and make a stink,whats the go daddy  oh?,whaddya nuts? Naw I got uni til later, might skive it though, but in any case I'll be there by sundown,Thinking about having a commerative skive, depending on the weather,exactly, plus if you're gunna step up as drummer we need you to sit in on a couple of sessions,plus if I'm skiving then you're not really skiving,You're just a victim of my war,dang, hes probably taking them with him,I already skived,today, which makes me the king of the skivvies,we can skive and go smoke cigarettes behind the shelter shed,like the real old school nihilists,no way, leave your bongos at home, get your comb and leathers, we're skivin,sweat stickin to tyhe skivver's shiv,howdy partener,arghen,I feel so priviledged,My life is complete,whaddya wann ado?,sounds just eachy,peachy,I love complaining,bwa,naw,I was going to eat something,but thats pretty loose,alrighty,ill give ya a ring,whqt time will you be in?,Choulash,I'll give ya a call around 8 or something,howday stranger,Ahh yeah, woke up really early and just sorta walked oot,how'd you go?,har har,Doon't think so,how boot you, thought you was birrein,alright but when girls start throwing themselves at you remember its only the jacket,damn right, cause you know how girls love MEDIA,pretty sure rgb inputs are obsolete plus could ya get a lamp dor i?,hey  <name>!,damn right, tellin me he's gettin back on the 17th,I dont think he's ever coming back,he already mentioned it,he's getting us some <Name>on,SCHWING,Denny: woah ababy, I owe you guys a 1L bottle of Jamison since I ripped you off at the airporthightilled it to another country with your cash,he knows it'd be me asking about it,you're too quietly generous,well thats our weekend sorted!,oh yeah,. bah, but he's a dime a dozen,he's pretty much just like a liamguscasey hybrid in a cowboy hat,just kidding, he's a special kid, I can't wait to touch him, it'll be like touching greece, and berlin and prgaue,we shoudl get him welcome back presents,I'm thinking a book or something,down and out in paris and london?,oh yeah, well I only parcatised one na dnow I'm in the doghouse all over again,and its cold in here,I hate all this hallmarky schmaltzy bullshit, I want a painfully cynical girl,but it was pretty damned romantic, picnic in the botanical gardens, I made a quiche,US,up?,that is the most consistent state ive eer been in,so ya wanna comeover friday and help me slam a few and do some bunting,I mean saturday,whoops,ar har har,my joint as ya know, theres a party on there saturday night, and I gotta ya know, do some bunting,and weaving and fairy light wiring diagramming and pushing and movingof large objects,fucky yes, I wanna get drunk and beat the hell outta crap,lucy you are making a pinata or else I'd have to beat YOU,I want it to look like this,    "you bet your candied ass,ooh, goody!,where was it?,thats fucking strange,I can't believe the fucking persistence of people,so whats happening,with it?,fucking shithell, well it fits the description,egads, the world is fucking insane,I guess the phone isnt worth anything, its like 10 dollar phone,ahhhh! I'll have to buy you all a beer, and jami's boss.,I'll go in and buy a really expensive cake or something,yah yah, good, fission? you better nto be listening to that crap, you should com eover soon, I'm, still sick as a dog, and broke, and no use to anybody,damn right, well you outta come over soon, hows your tomorrow?,com elisten to some these immortal souls and ride over and we'll go to dan murphys and buy bowlers run,well hopefull ythe weather keeps up, I needa get out of here anyway, I been recording too long, my ears are fusing to the headphones,yah yah, yah. Love stories galore.,cool man, well ya know if ya come over and see jami in between then can ya pick up my phone for me?,HAG,SPAG,SHAG,WAG,SLAG,TAG,MAG,FAG,that last one was you,Hey there ya bastard, what's happening? Up to anything tonight?,How's your shits? Been playing the keys?,Damn filthy, just finished uni for the week. Getting paid next week hopefully. Might be able to afford going halves in an aldi cask this weekend!,Hey  <name> no credit and maybe a about an hr late but please let's do somethingWhat are you up to tonight brah?,Sweaty Betty,Hey Mark happy to grab those headphones off you! I do sound art at RMIT so can meet the in the city tomorrow Thursday or Friday round lunchtime if that's alright.,That's pretty cool! What year are you in? Hm, I could possibly go higher than 15. Ic an meet you tomorrow on campus or whenever you have class? Can throw a repair trade if you need some gear fixed? Pretty handy with a sold<Name>g iron. I'll be hanging round the studios in building 6 all day tomorrow so let me know what time might be good for ya!,I dunno, 20 bucks?,Sweet man, my number is 0413 908 067 and I'll be round 6. In the immersive room 6.1.9 from 11-5 if ya smash me a text I'll come meet you.,Yeah cool man, no worries. I'll see ya then!,Hey Polly! Looks like you and my cousin Marti Power know each other? Tiny claustrophobic melbourne ey?,Good! Barreling through second year like a champ. Got accepted for my first gallery show at Kings yesterday so pushing against the walls of the RMIT bubble a bit har har. How are you?,Thanks! Will definitely let you know! Using some refined versions of the same processes I developed in your class to manipulate video and sound in the work. Yeah I think I'm on the academic/teaching trajectory by the looks of things (would love to pick your brains sometime about how to balance art practice and academic work/not go insane). Gotta be very masochistic!,Hey Polly, happy new year! Hope you're enjoying your holidays. I was just looking for some advice for this exhibition I have coming up and was wonderingif I could ask you a few technical questions?,Thanks so much!Do you know if I can borrow some stuff out from RMIT for an exhibition at a third party gallery? I emailed tim but I think he might be on leave. Also any tips on installing screens in galleries? Do you hide cables or leave them out? I'm assuming you drill a mount into the wall and then mount the screen/s on that with a dvd or media player playing your work on loop. Sorry I know it seems like common sense but this is my first time exhibiting a video work and I'm kind of lost.,Well I'm not sure that's the thing. I've emailed <Name> and Tim with all the equipment I would need to see if I can borrow for the exhibition period but would like to have a plan B just in case. Hopefully something comes of that next week as I think they are on leave at the moment. I do have a TV/monitor I can use with inbuilt DVD player which I could use in a pinch but it is pretty old and small. Are people still using DVDs to present or like hard drive players? Happy to hire some stuff out but really not sure where to go with that as there isn't really any hire companies targeted at artists. I originally planned for the work to have two screens but I am revaluating that because I'm not sure if I'll be able to get them in time.,I'm not sure what the gallery has available to us. I know that previous shows I've been to have had video screens but not sure whether those were provided by the gallery or brought in by artists.,I didn't think of that! I'll get in touch with the gallery and ask what they have available and what the rules are. Its quite possible they have some stuff available. For some reason assumed that I would just show up and start drilling into walls har har. I'll check out the rental company too for plan B. Do you reckon it might be worthwhile to invest in my own presentation equipment at some point? Is that something artists do?,Says on my information sheet that the gallery can provide "curatorial assistance when available" and they have "basic installation and deinstallation tools". Not sure what that includes though.,Okay cool that's good to hear. Yeah I spose I might go in a completely different direction for other works and won't use the stuff I have. Plus I spose things will become obsolete so might be wasted $$$ for a starving artist. Yeah was thinking that, media player might be more stable.,So you just get the ones that people use for home theater right? Reckon it'd be alright to just get a cheap one off ebay? Reckon I could tick that off the list fairly easily. I spose it mightn't be worthwhile investing in a screen cause I might have a work that needs a huge 50 inch screen and another one that would work on a black and white crt.,That's a good idea actually. Make sure I'm up to spec. Will obsessively research before I buy for sure ha ha. Thanks so much for the advice: it was really strange, I was super focused on the concept and work and promotion and all the admin stuff and then I realized I have like 5 weeks until the show and I don't actually know how its going to be presented to the public! I reckon it'll come together though. I'll send you an invite!,Yeah defintely a good call. I spose if I am borrowing friend's gear then they will have more incentive to come to the show to make sure I'm not misusing it ha. I've got a couple of irons in the fire now so I reckon I'll get it sorted before feb. Logistics aside it is really exciting exhibiting and I'm learning a shitload! Is a pretty good test for whether I just like studying art or whether I really want to make works for people. I think it will be easier in future having a better idea of the practicalities.,Hey, so the Scarlett is class compliant so just connects without any drivers. I've used it in logic with no problems.,Yep. Just plug and play.,Let me know if you're interested cause I got a few people asking about it,Yeah no Probs! When might be good for you to come by for a test and pickup? I'm in Pascoe Vale South.,Whoops,Yeah I think I'll be home then. What time were you thinking?,Yeah perfect should be free. My number is <number>, and address is <home> Pascoe Vale South. See ya then!,No worries. Let know when you're on your way,,,Hey no worries. Like I said I'm doing this for Spatial Practice - What type of sensor are you thinking of using/ have got?,Yeah, I got a whole bunch of those for spatial practice. It took me  a while to get a decent signal out of it. I can send you some code I wrote which takes the distance and maps it to Midi CC if ya want.,What kinda arduino ya thinking of getting, Uno?,Yeah its alright, If you haven't bought it already I'd say get a Arduino Leonardo. Leonardo is good for midi stuff cause it can do plug and play usb midi stuff. If ya got an Uno then ya have to go through a Serial-Midi converter thing which complicates things more.,Not really, its like 10 bucks.,   "Anyway, I'll stop flooding you with shit. We can talk tomorrow about it.,Yeah I dunno, he seems to have dropped off the map with this presentation. Spaced maybe? I'm almost done with my bit and you look liek you're on track, I dunno. We might have a gaping hole in the middle of our presentation,Fair call. I'm gunna do a big ol' edit tomorrow arvo/night coz I've been decidely slapdash with this presentation as well.,Where the hell is the sound and vision tute? Not in the pod?,Woops, alright ill jump on a team then,Tram,Thanks matey,3589549,Yo <name>, hows the prep for that show at Kings going? DO you know if we have class with <name> tomorrow arvo? Cheers,Cool bananas, I'll try and make it then. Well at least you get to test run it in class next couple of weeks.,I'm alright, uni having to take the backburner to life stuff a bit at the moment. Hope that changes soon. Plus recov<Name>g from massive existential crisis lasting til about last week har har. Semester 2 is where I'll shine baby,Dang, well she's got plenty of non university related irons in the fire so I'm sure she'll be alright! Shame though, second year alienation/disengagement slump is real.,Possible? Seem to be getting that from quite to a few people lately. Then again people might just be realizing how much work it'll be to sustain an art practice,Oh geez,<Name> on Long service leave, <name> quit. Gunna be an interesting semester.,Tried to send him an email the other day and got automated reply saying he was on long service til october or soemthing,Maybe we should organize the second years and talk to <name> Summers about having an alternate curriculum for Exapnding Practice, like some sort of Studio based class where we work towards a final project at the end of semester?,Naw,Cool will pass it on. See ya then,Spotted,Writing application for that tote show liquid architecture thing now,Good experience writing this kind of stuff anyway,Hey who was that theorist you were talking about last year who was all about the "in between spaces?",Ooh yeah that'd be useful,I think I already hit my obscure theory book budget for this month,Getting harder and harder to fudge those tax receipts,I'll dig around and see if I can get some excerpts or RMIT lib,Somebody's got it from the library bastards,cool, no rush,Its okay I think I found it on the interwebs,Great, gonna read this guy tonight. As always I am behind on my theory,Haha, we'll see how I go,thanks for the tip,Hey was it you that was telling me about auspicious art projects the other day?had any experience with getting projects auspiced?,Oh okay, probably better if I learn to do this stuff myself anyways. Thanks for the lead. Think I'm gunna put a solo proposal in for next <place> round so we can be gallery bros,Hm, good to know for the future though,PS we should organize a show for first site this semester,Oh whups, I mean we should apply for a show  next semester and organize proposal  show this semester. Would show next jan-mar possibly. Cutof is oct 20th for proposals for 2018,   "Yeah I was gunna do something based around those themes possibly expanded. Might degrade a few more scenes. Should put out the feelers next Friday during our expanding practice meeting thing,What do ya reckon you would do?,Was that the narrative on word the final work? Think you told me about that one. Keylogger data or some such?,*work,Oh righto,   "Hey bud how ya doing? Havent seen you in class for while. Was wonderingif you could give me some advice on a real pristine quality setup for field recording? Want to borrow some stuff from av loans and go get some bird sounds/river rushes for a piece I'm doing.,Fair call! Yeah saw you've been doing some extracurricular activities. Can see why those works would take precedence!,Awesome, yeah its for a show so might be able to get a hold of it. I'll email <Name> when he gets off long service,PS exhibiting at Kings in feb!,I know, gallery bros! now I just got to make the fucking work now, oh geez. Group show with <Name> and couple of other artists so we can share gallery $ haha. Cool, I'm gunna experiment with a few mics. Might make a weekend of it if I can get it. I want a really immersive kind of water sound so wanna capture as much of the frequency range as possible.,You aren't in immersive environments are you?,Lame,Lame guy,One dimensional environments,Stuck in a Ford falcon with mono power amp,Mate thats immersive enough for me,Hey bud, yeah we just enrol in the generic core subjects and then come jan we have enrolment into our specific sound/video/multimedia art/whatever they dream up for us subjects. Seems they needed the summer holidays to figure out what exactly they were.,Oooh yeah, enjoying the uni break. Workin on <place> show/projex and catching up with everyone I neglected the shit out of during the school year. How bout you?,looks like it? They got us balloted for everything,Yeah just fanging it trying to get my shit together for this Kinds thing in Feb. How bout you?,*<place>,Haha, well at least you're dressed appropriately for action,get ready to run around in circles,Good 'ol pensive drunk,Ooh damn I think I do have a work that might fit. I'll root around on my drives and send something through. Thanks!,   "Made this in class, were you in that class? Can't remember. Anyway, transcoded video and audio 1000 times,Wait I think you were in that class,Anyway I haven't shown this yet and it's probably the most finished video thing I have going,Awesome. What format do I need to put it in for loop? Usb drive with file or streaming off laptop?,Possible, I'll do it tomorrow when I can use RMIT internet cause it would probably take a day to upload on my shit innernet,Brought the wrong HD to uni today! Will be back at uni on Monday so I can do it then.,No worries in my calendar,Frigging rend<Name>g issues. Got a new comp and my video card isn't compatible with the project so rend<Name>g out all green and screwy with dropped frames. Had to change to software only acceleration for render and now got a real long wait time. I can upload overnight tonight or get it to you wednesday during the day/bring external HDD early on wednesday night. Sorry bud.,Hey probably too late but managed to get a stable render uplaoded to google drive. I'll bring a hard copy too but here ya go.\   "No worries sorry it took so long. My internet was down at my place and then the HDD I was keeping stuff on failed. Not a lucky week har har,Fron now on everything goes to VHS,   friday,Hi, mate, if it's still available I'll totally get that reverb pedal off you. I'm in Pascoe vale south but will be in the city at RMIT all day tomorrow if you wanna meet upCheersLiam,Yeah no worries I've got plenty of power adapters. Cash is fine. Meet in the CBD or whereabouts are you based?,Oh whoops, sorry. I live pretty close to Brunswick so can meet up someplace round there tomorrow if you are free? On Sydney Rd or something.,I'll be passing through round 10:30-11 tomorrow so round then would be ideal, but I can probably make it later if you need,Cool, I'll message you tomorrow then! Can meet anywhere on Sydney Rd so let me know where is good for you,cool, you know the 7/11 on the corner of brunswick rd and sydney rd then? could meet up there,Hey man, I'll be at the 7/11 in Brunswick at 11. Will bring cash. See ya then.,I'll be there at 11 on the dot by the looks of it.,Cool I'm just out the front of the 7/11. Got a orange backpack,Hey mate, so what exactly is happening with the screen, got lines missing or something? Cheers,Oh cheers! Seen a few vids online that those are pretty common problems so know what I'm getting myself into. Worst comes to worst I'll just put some reverb on it that should fix it right? Looks like a good project to slowly get around to fixing. I'm just in Pascoe Vale South so can come by whenever you are free if you are in Brunswick West.,All good to pickup tomorrow if you're free?,Ohh ok makes sense. Yeah could be a possibility. Only if it's not too much trouble. Otherwise can just wait til you're back on town, no worries!,Yeah no worries! Talk then. Cheers.,Hey sweet as. I can pop round to day/tonight if possible. When might be good for ya?,No wukkas I can do around 8-8:30 I reckon. Where abouts are you in Brunswick West?,Heyo I'm a little early, you gunna be home in around 15?,Haha that's alright my fault for showing up a bit early! Your housemate was super lovely so no stress. Gunna get this fella home! Didn't realize how massive the Mc505 is!,Haha looking forward to checking them out. Yeah checking out the manual seems like it goes pretty deep with assignable outs and 8 parts etc.,thanks, I'll need it,no its actually Justice, but I changed it cuz danger sounds cool!,Right ON!!!,Hey naw unfortunately not, only got my Ls. Thanks for asking though.,As soon as possible? I got assessments due next week and all plans/readings are on my laptop. Also the rest of my life apparently. Might be able to get one from melbs though,Also hey,That would be awesome. Could possibly hold out til then. Gunna probably have to go and use the library computers on tuesday. Ergh.,thanks mike,Nah dang, thats the newer model, same as <Name>s,You only laugh because of your ignorance of high culture,You and your bourgeois intellectualism, I am the people's poet, I know not the establishment's fickle champions,How many words does a 5 minute speech need to be?,Haha sure as long he takes direction and is careful with stuff.,No worries,Maybe I'm thinking of 13 year old mikey still har har,Oh gawd can you get Cathy to call <Name> to reassure her she is having a minor freak out this morning and won't listen to me!,Yeah all good freak out averted,Hells yeah, thanks mike,Haha, twitter: the great equalizer,Nice one! Hi Mag!,Ok, what's going on? let me know if anything comes up. Thanks Mag.,Alrighty, keep me posted.,Alright. If he has to stay for longer we'll come see him,Fair enough. You might be able to get some decent food into him as well,Yeah he told me yesterday, going in to visit him tomorrow with <Name>,Yep, my number is 0413 908 067. Hope everything's alright. I'm going to this appointment on the 11th so we can find out more.,TELEFUNKENS FROM THE 60s.Thats cool bruv.,Just wanted to say thanks for the other night, It was nice seein you and I had a good time even if I was in a bit of a bad mood. Hope you're wellYours sincerelyLiam Power,gaw, It was nice the other niight! except for the intense death conversation. well we should do coffee or lunch or something at some point when our scheds meet up good. Everything is fine in every respect, just happy to be on hols. Me and <Name>were dreaming about the cymbals from that drum kit at your house, perhaps we should arrange some sort of planned burglary...,Ahh god, I forgot about this. I haven't been in the tutes cause I have unenrolled from media law altogether! Shit. Sorry to put you on the spot like that. How shitty. Good luck though, I hope I dont put a hole in the debate.,Hey alex, hows your trip going? Hope you guys have had a blast! Room's been fine. I thought you guys would pay next month's rent seeing as I paid two months already, I paid mine on april 20th. You guys left on the 29th, so you got a week rent paid by me before you left. I guess you should pay for this month and then it works out right? Otherwise I'd be paying 9 weeks rent to stay for 8. So I stayed from 29th April, and you told me you guys were coming back on 29th June which is 2 months.  Hope that makes sense. Anyways enjoy he rest of your trip folks. See ya soon.,Hey alex sorry internet has been down at grattan street for a while I think I will stay on til the 3 or 4th or whenever you get back so we can work it out either I can pay   <name> like 100 bucks or whatever it is for a week or you can pay the full month and I will pay you if you give me your details. Thanks Liam,Hey there <Name>y pants, hows PremFan going? and the performance art thing? and the other irons in the fire? are they hot yet? Anyway, obligatory small talk over. If you happen to be playing any gigs and someone pulls out, or ya need someone to open for ya, I'm desperately seeking solo shows, and no position is too degrading, will play the toilet of the tote, ext tothe urinals and get splashed with piss if need be.,Liam Power for now, soundcloud.com/liamfpower,thatd be awesome!,You're a boss <Name>y. Lemme know if ya need any weird electronic gadgets and ill solder ya up something,Hey bud, did Premfanni wanna play Bar Open with my solo shite, InfraGhosts and TBA Ma 11?,BTW:InfraGhosts:       "Did ya end up hearing back from Zoe?,Hey Al, yeah, <Name> said something about a gig round the beginning of September, I'm happy to open or whatever ya need, 9th Septmber sounds ace. Dunno if <Name> gave ya a link to my soundcloud but its \   "Hell yes, Ill check with the lads and let ya know, should be fine though.,Yeah we are totally fine to play, was just saying the other day how I wanted to play the ballroom, lineup looks great as well.,Go for it,our soundcloud is \   "cool man, talk to ya then,Hey Al, 6th sounds great! Lemme know when ya get more details/worksheets. By the way the boys are super into the lineup for the ballroom gig. Should be a blaster!,Works fine for me, Sunday public transport will probably sync perfectly.,Great night! loved your set too, very mad australian alan vega. Bank details followName: Liam PowerInstitution: BankwestBSB: 303-092 Account #: 5893348,Sweet sweet, let us know if ya need me to open anytime in the future as well, how much did it come up to?,Hey al, hows it gahn? Ya got any details about the saturday HOOT? RE: Running sheet, backline etc.?,sounds good mate, seeya tomorrow night eh?,Hey Al, hows it going matey? You planning to play any more Orange shows in the near future? Loved you guys at the front bar, and I was wonderingif we could put together something  with <name>, Orange, Cable Ties and Kollaps in the new year. Talked to those guys and they're in. Reckon that would be a damn fine show. Also we were keen to get something going at the Tote in november if ya know of any slots that need a-fillin.,Ooh yeah, I know those guys, they played with General Men, and my mate george is in that band. Trying to put together a lineup for our tape launch in november, and those guys might be ace. Thanks for the tip.,Shit man, everyone seems cool to play, if someone pulls out we should do it, otherwise lets do one in the new year.,Hey Al, hows it going? We're in Pascoe Vale South, <home>. Can ya do the morning? Got <Name>'s immunisations in the afternoon but could also  possibly do later on like after five? Up to you.,PS thanks heaps for dropping it off!,Whenever's easiest for you really, round 11-11:30ish maybe?,0413 908 067 matey, 10 is good too,Hey Al, doing fine mate, how bout you? Thanks for coming by! Any time is good so whenever you are free. Don't think we have much planned for today other than cower next to the fan really.,Yup all details correct. Ill get it ready for ya. See ya soon matey,Cool banans,Yeah no worries have a good one!,I was gunna ask you about that today,cool, ill give em a listen,fuck yeah,painted hole sounds like it'd be pretty easy to work into my tuning, or you could take over on guitar.,seems like you're kind of working round the riff, if I learnt to play that, then I could improv some stuff in between.,fuck yeah, this is so sloppy, so good. Kind of like gutterville splendour six.,hey sailor is good, but I think painted hole would work better into the whole aesthetic.,I'll have a practass of it anyway, need to start playing guitar at home.,I can dig it mama,I like some of the ambient stuff off here too, just kinda hard to do with denny.,you have an ebow?,fuck yeah,you bastard, I would be like you if I had a proper work ethic.,yeah, in 2011 I knew about 2 people who listened to anything at all,yeah, start a band called die press,ooh man, these recordings from today are pissign me off, the goddamn mic cutting out,even reverb doesnt help!,har,maybe I'll overdub,theres a little bass but its pretty muddy,ityeah, I think it was overloading the amp, which never happened before, maybe it was the extra speaker pulling current or something,small room syndrome,consid<Name>g the amount of times that amp has blown up, I'm suprised it works as well as it does.,they just dont make em like they used to eh,Actually I kinda like the vocals cutting out, gives it a sort of artificial edge.,Gunna probably get there round 7:30? Yeah might have to put er off til next week a I'm super broke and can't afford new strings AND wine.,yeah man, i'd totally grab one, I think im fine for pedals but if ya see anything quirky and cheap in the reverb department grab me one. hows tricks in japan, sounds so awesome- saw that electronics stall, sounds like a gangstas paradise. ya been doin any vendo yet?,ps fucking volca keys, sounds sick as, cant wait to have a synth jam when you get home. I got an accordion from my aunt the other day, been amking heaps of disgusting droney wheezy stuff, made a spring reverb mkii as well, soudns really dark and dirty beachey, super cool. Really confident so i might have a lil present for ya when ya get back,Dunno how the cash situation is, pretty cool with my setup at the moment. Probably a boss rv or some other reverb pedal If ya can get one cheap. Otherwise do t bother and drink some beer and we'll jam out when ya get back.,Bastards, well if ya see a cheap one grab it, or a second hand gakken sx150 or something, but otherwise ill be cool unless you see something impossibly cheap and awesome such as a midi step sequencer or some crap.,wanting to turn that semi experimental song we were doing in the rehearsal room into this kinda thing, real ambient. Very slow and see if <Name>can do the fills, i reckon we could do this.    "or this,      more bass heavy and with less of a british accent.,Just an idea, but would you let me buy your volca keys off you? I'm so addicted.,Yeah I wanna do midi out on it. No big deal though. I'll borrow it for a while til I have the couple of hundred spare.,Cool man, yeah I was looking into making a video synth with an arduino that did something similar. Not too hard to do.,   pretty sweet and the price is right. Waiting round in the hospital and looking at synth diy. What the hell is wrong with me.,Hey bud, how's it going? Day end up getting that Push? Was thinking of something today, if you're still producing in live we could collaborate by sending live sets back and forth to each other , apparently it works pretty well. \   we should play a show or have a jam when you guys get back.,I reckon three phase but will have to work out timing. Yeah I meant just back and forth some snot necessarily savnobs jams. Coz we won't be able to jam very much for a while I reckon that'd be a good way to no pressure collab and get ideas flowing etc. Will check out dat track when I get home.,   "hey donnnn hows it gahn, wanna have an electro mac jam in the next week? I got this thursday til next thursday off, <Name>s up in canberra with <Name> so im free for mad jam times,Bcoolbeans, no sure what's happening but <Name>sai maybe savnobs jam Friday or just mad hangs. See how we go I guess,That sounds like a damn good idea actually. I'm kinda of at a dead end with them so maybe a fresh set of ears and a new environment would help. What day would be good for that? Tuesday or Wednesday or something?,Speakers would be good, there's a limit to headphone mixing.,Shit, we mixed the bass really high on all these mixes,its like, almost every track we need to bring down the bass like 5db,Yeah, it could be the limiter as well,also vox on membrane are really high in the mix,like uncomfortable high,but thats why we bounce reference mixed right,lash sounds awesome though,it would actually take us like an hour to go in and set the leves,ill take some notes this week, and maybe we can go in next wednesday or something,alright cool, well touch base next week,good luck with yr assignment,dude no stressies, its been like 6 months, thisll keep for another week,Cool, ill have a listen in a bit when franks asleep and can sit down with it, fuck yeah! I reckon those tracks sound rety cool they just need the bass down a bit, I tossed them in ableton and put on a bit of a rolloff on the lows and they ounded fine, we just needa work that balance,THE TRACKS WE DID*,woah caps,wooppps,fuck yeah, sounds tight,did you side chain the hats or something?,super dry, really cool,Layers of compression,Cool man, this'll play really well on triple j,haha,UNEARTHED HERE WE COUME,HERE WE COMB,LOL,sounds really good man,vocal level is intens, but it works for fetter,Just having a second listen now.. bass might need to go up a tad, but then again im on headphones, the bass is nice and implied though,Yeah, this is pretty well balanced actually,the only problem with the drums is sometimes when the crash goes you can really hear the attack on the compressor,so any sound engineers listening will be mildly annoyed,Sounds like a mini pops,drum machiney, which is good, yeah, in the chorus the hats come through kinda distorted, its really not noticable though, probably just headphones,I'll listen again and see if I notice it when listening to the vocal,coz thats what 99 percent of the populus will actually care about,What it is is that the compression works really well on the hats in the verse, but <Name>goes to the ride in the chorus and it still sounds like a hat because of the compression, so it sounds like he is playing the hat and the ride at the same time, which is disconcerting. Then again if I am picking on this, then the tack must sound good,its at 1:34,see if ya can notice it.,Ya played it to <Name>yet,haha, well there ya go,its like they are clipping for like 10ms or something, just the peaks,I'm pretty sure its just like, softer attack on the compressor, or down a decibel for the OH,haha, sorry, it does sound really good though,hm thats true, dont really want to fuck with that. Its really no big deal at all. I havent even listened on speakers, its probably not even noticable.,so what eelse we have left to do? bring down bass levels on everything except lash,oh yeah, i gotta find that mix still, been a fucking crazy week, we all had bronchitis,yeah matey sounds good, might be able to get a day off soonish. What were ya thinking for overdubs?,down to trak some synth parts,also if ya sendme some mixes I can write some parts at home then we can go to estudio and record them?,oh yeah, ill look at em tonight and do some overdubs. sunday would probably work,Ill do some abletonsssss,WISH WE HAD ACCESS TOA VOCODER,Might want to overdub the last verse or something, Hm. Sunday was good, maybe we can do it at your place? Or does it need to be in the studio for yr assignment? I'm gunna go through those tracks tonight and do some fallesque type organ stabs for purge and probably evolving delay drones for dirge. Might want to redo vocals for the dirgey one, and double track and shit maybe.,happy to do it at your place though. I got everything setup at my place as well so might be alright, although not sure whether my setup is hifi enough,Man, the guitar is fierce as fuck,in purge,and dirge,that song is called part of you by the way,Will wanna redo vox for that, and maybe add some sort of effected overproduced delay,outro,hell yes,I was thinkign some kind of walkdown thing in the bending 7th fret bit,nah let him play round with it,ill pop some overdubs over them and ya can tell me what you're into,good call, maybe ill chuck like a couple of second test tone at the start of the overdub track and the master, then send ya back the two stems,alrighty then, so make a click track and put some in, gotca,cool man, will get on that tonight, <Name>s had exams and crap the last couple of weeks so been a bit slack with music shit. Thanks for getting on shit and organising stuff a bit,is it 48, or 96?,yeah no shit, wanna do heaps of holiday stuff, <Name>s going to canberra in the middle of july for a week, shoudl try and play a show,24 bit, k, ill change setting to reflect that,try and get some overdubs u'led tonight,yeah, ill ask <Name> when she gets back, pretty sure its the week of the 15th or something,thats cool, i just reorganized my studio for overdubs and whatnot, so ill blast out a couple of synth tracks for each and maybe a vocal for purge and upload em for ya,I reckon either loop the last bar of purge twice then fade, or just fade it out, cause it just ends kinda randomly,I mean dirge,purgey dirgey,Yeah, I gotta focus on being dada,Later dude, good luck with essays n shit,fuck man, I'm actually having a wierdly hard time making up synth parts that dont stand out like a sore thumb and arent too boring and doubley, I think they are pretty much guitar songs,I like purge, but im not so sure about dirge, I think its kinda a sepration from the rest of the sound,So maybe I should just retrack guitar tracks or osmehting,Awesome. I'll do some guitar overdubs or something. What time? Psyched about sax,yeah, 2 could be good, we take guitar amps and shit and reamp some stuff I bring some synths and stuff just in case?,Cool, I'll bring my guitar and pedals and we will track some extra guitars. Lets fuck with the moog then, won't bring any synth stuff then.,Also can double track vox.,Can ya bring your tuner?,Cool, heading off in 5. Be at yours soon.,Hey matey, would you be open to letting me have a peek at your folio for your rmit preselection kit sometime? Just trying to get an idea of what they are looking for etc.,Cool, so you can submit a sound file then? And the personal statements and stuff, are the written statements descrbing th eprocess behind the creation of the sound piece?,kind of like an artist statement,Awesome, so did you kind of link your sound piece thematically or anything?,DO you put in a hard copy of the preselction kit? Or is it all through the RMIT applydirect thing,Cool, well I've got til October or something for march intake so ill have time to get some shuts together. Gotta get me transcripts and crap together as well. So it just seems like your folio piece is meant to be indicative of you and your commitment to fine art or whatever rather than based on something itself. Just a kind of taste of  "<Name>Gray the sound artist",Cool, well ill cover my ass anyway and make sure my folio piece has some substance or theme or something I can wax lyrical about if need be. I got plenty of time to get it together. Thanks for the info brah.,Sweeeet,Oh gawd, lets learn from our mistakes.,Ps. Turns out I was really really sick on Saturday. And pretty sure <Name>was downin tinnies all day, so surprised we went on at all.,Ah well, ya win some ya lose some. Back on the pony for next gig.,Still had a couple of people come up and say they liked shit though. Strangers too.,Yeah, separation street. That'd be siiiicccckkk,Yeeeaaahh. Oh well, there's always next time. We haven't plate a how in a year remember.,Played a show,Practice makes perfect and app that,All,Plus there's a huge difference stern rehearsing and actually playing shows.,Rehearsing is an ideal environment with no distractions or pressures. Playing shows is the opposite. But I'll take responsibility for that, I had a fever and shit, probably should have been in bed and not on stage. But ya know, punx attitude.,Reckon we should have a rehearsal where we set it up exactly like a gig, like amps facing toward the front and whatnot, and play to imaginary audience on the wall,All the more reason for <Name>to buy a decent kit ey?,this show is punk as fuck, thank fuck, I think we can get away with being a little sloppy if we just roll with it,Hey <Name>my account details areBSB: 303092 5893348,Name: Liam PowerInstitution: BankwestBSB: 303092 Account No.5893348,Wait tip we get the quote back. I don't get paid til Monday anyway so ill put it through then.,Designed it myself from combining a couple of designs. I could build ya one too if ya want?,When I have some time to finish it up, I've got a 9v multi mode filter (LP,HP, BP)  that I was gunna chuck in a way case. Dont need two vcfs so can probably give ya one.,Also  I have the schematic and parts layout lying around somewhere I think.,Sweetness. The board is pretty large for the ms20 one I made so mightn't fit in pedal case if ya go that route. The multi mode might, the design is way smaller.,Yeah, no biggles, by the way, the design its based off is here\   "Hey hey hey donno, when you get some spare time did you want to upload the masters to the duplication.ca ftp site? Ya gotta rename them A01, A02, A03 etc. and ut them in their own folder, I tried last night but my uplad speed is like 10kb a sec,also we got the quote back but they are adjusting for the cheaper shipping so it might be monday anyway before we get the adjusted quote,youve probably seen this but sets the format for uploading etc.    "Good call, its on the duplication.ca website. I created a folder called <name> membrane with our order number so just drop them in there,   user: client password: bonjour,Also uploaded a demo for us to try out to the savnobs page,Also got a new demo on the way where we do a call and responce vocals thing in the chorus,no worries dudeson, canda is 12 hrs behind, so nothing will get done about it til tonight or monday anyway I assume,I dunno, I appended the order details iwht the track listing, I think thats enough, you can always add a text file with the masters that sets out the structure,Name: Liam PowerInstitution: BankwestBSB: 303092 Account No.5893348,that name again is Liam Powe,Nice one thanks matey,No stress. Will probably make the most back anyways. Now just gotta get them covers done.,hey donzo im gunna publish the album so I can get a link to show gusses sister, apparently we could get some airplay on PBS,as in, itll be published, but privately so we can send out the link, that cool,sweeeet,ill make one now,hows that?,text too small?,The banner is high res, its just a picture of a tv close up, hence pixelation,actually no i see what oyu mean,ill get another one up,add blur to obscure pixels,Yeah, there's a bit of overlap but ill send through your address. That's cool, we're you alright to come pick me up?,Crying baby, which is now a sleeping baby, I was thinking we could do some more bass heavy, spartan guitar (delay phase wah) this jam, those things I posted were kind of a rough guide, but like pop group post punk dub type flow would be cool. Got a heap of random bullshit lyrics I can throw in there, but yeah, been listening to lots of minimal stuff and have been digging the whole hypnotic slowly changing repetition type thing. P.S we should have an ableton jam one of these days eh? dunno how your thursdays are but I usually but I have 2-6 free.,Also thanks for driving, richmond in peak could suck balls,hey dong <name>, great show last night fella, turns out Al got back to me about that gig in september, solo show on the 9th, you gunna be back from tassie by then? In any case I wanted to ask you a huge one, if my launchpad hasn't arrived by then (which is highly unlikely) do you reckon I might be able to borrow your push for the night?  I'll come pick it up and drop it off afters and would owe you a sweet favour which you can redeem anytime.,cool man, probably wont need to but just in caseys,will probably show up next week,Shitdogs, actually I'm playing this show next week with george, so might actually have to borrow it if I can't find something during the week. Might possibly show up before then. I'll ask around and see if anybody ese has a launchpad I could possibly borrow.,uh huh, will do,ok shitdogs, so yeah im playing this gig on saturday and I called the store and they said itd be another week till I get my launchpad back, so If I could could I maybe come round and borrow the push for a bit? I'll take damn good care of her,Yeah no probs dude, thanks a million! I owe ya one for sure, we'll get that filter thing sorted out post haste. You the man.",""" "Hey donno, did a draft of the piece for my folio presentation, did ya wanna have a look at it and maybe tell me what ya think?   " "Fuck yeah! Now just gotta get the 10 minute thing together and I'll be right as rain. Got til the end of sept. plus maybe I can give the assessor a seizure when they are looking at my folio.,should be done by then, thanks bruv,Update: don't stress about lending me the push, by some extremely uncharacteristic stroke of luck, my launchpad is repaired and back in the store today, so should be fine for saturday night. Have a blast in Tas matey, see ya when ya get back.,   sure I'm down with my folio, hope its not too melodious.,*done,but I am also down with it,SUBMITTED MATE,hopefully see ya next year eh?,well, ya know, hopefuly before then,Your selection task/pre-selection kit will be assessed using the following selection criteria:Level of creative potentialLevel of technical abilityCapacity to think conceptuallyAwareness of art history and/or contemporary art practice,Pretty sure the selection criteria is just an extension of my CRUSHING SELF DOUBT,yeah, spose thats my focus at the moment though, I had another piece with voice and bass and stuff, but I think it didnt really work that well with the rest of it,I was like, thematic flow trumps dynamic range maybe,hopefully ill get to do some body interaction type shit next year,wearable electronics and jazz,   "Drumsynth?,love the spareseness,Possibly, pretty sure <Name>s got all her final essays and shit due that week so might not be able to get away from <Name>.,Hey dudeson, did ya wanna post that list of possible bands. I'll start emailing tonight,Hey Dongo drums, are you coming on monday to PBS?,also hows it gahn,between 3-4 on monday, we gotta bring a cd version of membrane,gunna be on homebrew. Think you were pretty out of it last rehearsal when we was talking about it,Thats cool, yeah I can burn the cd no sweat, just might needa have a think about what we wanna talk about,Well yeah, I figured we'd talk about recording down in the otways, and how the serenity was kinda destroyed by country kids playing stoner metal jams on our equipment when we were done with it,then we can talk about late nights at RMIT mixing the thing,then we can intro some of the tracks, I'll talk about what the songs mean, you can talk about whatever, mixing. Then we can talk about the sound we were going for, then we should talk about our upcoming shows and plug em to bits, talk about the other bands on the lineup with us, play some more tracks, the end.,Oh yeah and a brief mention to the tapes being lost in transit. "Glenda at Auspost assures me they'll show up eventually" kinda thing,Should say we have a video clip comng out early next year or something,Cool beans, well we're on at 3:30, so ill meet ya at 3 or something and we'll go to PBS. You know where it is right? easey st in collingwood, just near the corner of smith and johnstone,We gotta be there by like 3:15, we're going on at 3:30. <Name>said he'd show up around 3:40 or whatever so he might get in but probably not. I can either meet you at your place and we can go together or I can meet ya in collingwood.,I reckon we should have coffee or something before if ya have time,nicenice. meet on smith street like 2:30 then?,Yup. See ya at 2:30,Sweetums. Lesgetcoffee,DO ya wanna wait and see if we get some cash from this gig tomorrow night as use some of that towards it. I'll put in 80 or something,Skaz,good hustle last night by the way.,hopefully a few punters show up tomorrow night,was just thinking that,Go ahead and craft the perfect event plug,sick as. I'll do one on my page as well,kidna feeling good about this gig cause the stakes are so low. Will be a good warmup for the 26th.,haha, just gotta go with the flow bruv,I wonder whether we can get our own engineer for the tote show? 50 bucks per band seems kinda intense.,So we need at least 40 punters through the door to break even?,so what did we do when we had the first show at the tote bandroom? Did we have to pay for that?,oh yeah,good memory,40 people isnt that much at all really, even if people show up for one band then leave,if ya have some time did ya wanna up those rehearsal tracks for last night?,Also what setlist did we agree on? Puffing Billy, JailTreasonFetterPurgeMountainAnyone?,   an ableton project Re what we were talking about a while ago with collaboration, just to see if it works if you open it up.,   "i think it might work,No stress just if ya have some free time and want something to do.,Cool. Crystallizer is some soundtoys plugin, and brassinski is for the vododer, can replace it with some operator brass sound or something,kinda cool that it works though,Was just seeing if a more complex thing would work. I reckon it needs more ambience and shite, probs some kinda lead synth or summat. What do you think?,Actually I reckon it needs a third part, think that's why I any it to you, like the verse/chorus bit is alright, but it needs some kinda counterpointy thing for a break or something.,Anyway if you have any unfinished stuff you want me to look at, I just saved a copy into a new folder, collect all and save then zipped it.,Well anything you're stuck with or ya think has promise and reckon I could help I'm down for. I'm the same, got like a 10/1 project/finished song ratio going on.,Gotta close them odds!,The curse of the bedroom producer,We should make a video to post on event page tonight,Content baby, content,shoot em in the face,Metooo. Gunna tape it to me guitar or summat.,That's what I remembered. Probs wrong.,Oh yeah, forgot jail.,yeah no bigs. I'll bring paper and pen.,Ya on your way to paradise?,Well have a good one buddy,Thats cool, you were probs worried about going to paradise in the morning and having to put on and take off a jacket. LESDO a video clip next eh?,Also did ya get a live feed from the desk last night?,Man I'd be into it but <Name> is working full time so don't have much time for anything at the moment. Could possibly do Friday during the day, I'll let ya know tonight. Got all them patch leads ready for ya, thanks for the lens.,Yeah man that'd be cool! Come pick up your patch leads and we'll just,Hang and talk shop or sommat,Probs Thursday would be best, going to the Ngv Wednesday.,I got this,So we're just doing "Membrane' right?,Thank fuck, no communication breakdown. So 1 or 2 tomorrow? Bring sum tapes?,You doing a space either side?,Good call, kinda satisfying in the same way as taking all the peel off an apple or eliminating ripples in the cling wrap. \   "7 to go,alrighty, I got 25, 27 if you count kinda fucked ones.,SKAZ,Then we're done. I got a few people wanting to buy tapes so I'll grab like 5 off ya when I see you.  <name> bought my master copy too. DIK,WHAT AM I WATCHING,I love these guys,HEY BROV, I uploaded a mixture of those two tracks to bandcamp, I'm gunna upload some of that synth stuff we did, did ya wanna do the soundcloud version of fetter? Put purge up too if you want,Uploading now,,   What I got so far,There ya go man, they are all up now, managed to rip that panic omb track off soundcloud and I'm upping that as well,sickkass,also think we're ready to make the tape public eh?,yeah yeah yeah, well whatevs, no rush,Pitchshift,I had em sequenced,alrighty then,well get rid of it if ya want, just making sure we have loads of stuff so we can be picky,Yeah man, I saw that. Look awesome, like a modern juno type thing. Dig the oscilloscope display,Once my gear budget increases again...,Almost comleted electronic drumkit for denny,completed. So far have two cymbal pads, and five drum pads, velocity sensitive sending out usb midi, midi and analog triggers,my arduino skills have reached terminal velocity,killin it. Gunna load some wild 80s drum samples into it and smash the fucker out.,Hey what USB hub did you end up buying after you got rid of your crappy one? Mind just broke.,yeah spoilt for choice. I was looking at that one too.,Nah I don't have em, I bought new ones at three phase the next rehearsal we had. Maybe they're in your car?,yeah man, can never have too many leads, I probs only need a few though, maybe do the 8? only 4 bucks a lead,been meaning to get some neutriks and a reel of cable for like 5 years,then I would never have to worry again,yeah, pretty sure I've seen neutriks for like 3 bucks a pop. Man, if we got a few more people in on a bulk order of neutrik 1/4"s, heatshrink and shielded audio cable, we'd totally never have to buy cables again.,neutrik connectors that is,Something like these would do: \   look better but are right angle\   just gotta get some high impedance cable and we set,but ya know, probably too ambitious if ya just need cables,Wait whaa? Savnobs on that no signal thing?,coo,btw you cool with rehearsal friday yeah?,Skaz,Nah man go for it, looks good.,Monday night mass would be great to play support. I ended up just cutting up a broken cord and making a couple. They turned out pretty good, heatshrink and hot glue for strain relief, got a couple of meters left if ya wanna sling me any spare connectors ya end up with I can solder some up for ya.,I was going to, but it looks like half the time is people doing some orientation project, which seems pretty lames.,Didnt end up making orientation but doing art history reading so dont feel too bad. Got my first studio methods class next Thursday at 1:30 so will probably pop in early and grab one of them no signal usbs. Reckon I should sign up?,Got new tuners in mail, they fit but will need to drill some screw holes into the headstock of my guitar :(,right on,That Peter guy seems cool, should defs book a gig with sythetics mid-april,Oh yeah, that right you told me that earlier today. So wrecked man, soz.,Super spacied from first week using brain in ages,Probably pretty low key tomorrow night too, so no stress about times, lemme know if theres any bands you really wanna see and I'll try and be round the tote or summat round then.,we will, depending on what <Name>and j boy and possibly <name> are up to,But yeah, have nothing planned so far, just kinda wanted to have a few drinks and catch up with everyone. How was first week back? Ya stressed?,Right on,Its kinda strange how art and music are used simultaneously in some subjects, but a really clear distinction is felt in others. Like music is sometimes considered "art" but, not all the time and it has to be a certain type of stuff.,Yeah, heard quite a few people bitching about the conceptual thing this week,They're like, "That shit is mostly ad-hoc, most people add it in as an afterthought",I was talking to some third year guy who was making up a first year course,Like, its fairly easy to write that artwank stuff right? But at third year level they would be seeing through the whole "The Artist interacts with space and time to create a dynamic environment which evokes themes of urban decay, anti-establismentarianism",thing,I guess spatial practice is the most conceptual subject I have so far, and its kinda hard being so cynical about the language of art theory and stuff.,Dude my brain is porridge consistency,I gotta audit a space or something.s3589549liampower.tumblr.comGot this so far for a research journal.,<Name>'s got me capturing an environment for first week. Gunna contact mic up the kettle boiling.,Thanks man, actually have no idea if I'm on the right track or not.,Yeah, thats my problem. I got some kinda concept for the contact mic stuff, like, capturing the details of banality, or exploring assumptions that we have about everyday life. My approach is to just get as much raw recording as I can and see which one I can speak the most about, and that is probably the one I need to present.,Yeah, like maybe I should just chill, and go with it a bit. Fricking obsessive personality.,Yeah, trying to get into good habits, lots of work each week though.,Spose, like, medium amount of work each week, then its not so terrifying at the end that way,Me too dude, whaddya think I'm doing right now?,haha,I guess I'm trying to break old habits though, thats why I'm here. And the most detrimental is leaving shit to the last minute for me. Actually can't do that with <Name> around and stuff. All nighter not possible.,Yeah, fun recap Liam. Super cool that you are coming out the other end almost unscathed though.,Gotta go audit a space.. seeya in 7 hours,Yeah man, will get on that tonight should post setlist next week too.,Yeah looks good,Yup can do. Facebook messaged <name> so didnt come up in email. Will message re: backline and set times. Should get some change from that 150 we got from the catfish for door float. I will bring all the tapes I have, might as well sell as many as possible. If we could possibly fit my gear in the car I can organise to get it home. Need cable to play music in between sets. Should try and get line out from mixer to zoom for possible live recording. <Name>needs to do set lists. Personal facebook plug and official savage nobles page appeal as well. Maybe should try and get someone to take photos as well. Also fine to play apr 20th. Is that everything?,Sent through backline & setlist to <name>. Waiting to hear back.,What would you say if I told you the first years were thinking of starting a new sound collectiv/gear lending library thing completely not oppositional to no signal.,It would be just sound art/booking gigs and possibly relaesing tapes,Talking to a couple of kids tommorow. I guess we just dont wanna piss off the no signal guys and gals. First event would probs be a show. Im gunna donate somme gear to establish a lending library as well. Im leaning more towards a help each other out with technical issues/try and get gallery spaces/book gigs functional thing,Well you're welcome to join us if we end up getting established. Would like to pick ya brain about what you're looking for in a collective.,Hey man can I send ou this track I'm working on for byrons class and you can tell me whether what it needs mix wise? I got ear fatigue and am just tweaking like mad.,Uploading to google drive takes foreva,Six,Six,Soz.,Stupid autocorrect,Nah just a bounce. I'll just MP3 it to Soundcloud,320,Of course,I,   "Here ya go. was putting <Name> to bed,vocals too high?,thats what I was thinking, might be an automation thing,sik. might push vocals down at the start,thanks mayyyte,the assignment brief is like "use ableton to make a song",feels like its more a subjective thing with <name> than anything else to be honest.,Like, with the first assignment he said he wasn't assessing contect just technique, but then he started criticizing the content of some girl's assignment.,like right away,He's a cool guy but assessment is all over the joint,Anyway, all that was made in ableton, cept the vocals and the two noisy synth overdubs, so he shoul dbe happy,had to make the bass in Analog,which I had never used before,just upped compression ratio on vocals and it fixed it, were just a little too dynamic to sit nice,Fuck it, its done.,Dw was ranting for some reason,What class did you do purge for?,Cool, hopefully get to do some full band recording,<Name>missed a video chat with you.,<Name>missed a call from you.,Whoops accidentally called you,You still want that 9v VCF? Happy to trade for something.,Realised I haven't been using it that much,Four track?,Can always trade back if need be.,Pretty sure I'm just gunna join no signal,Like a splitter thing?,Oh a pickup simulator thing. Had to look it up,   "Can't you use a di box from interface to amp? Can't imagine it e you'd be that different.,That or some sort of preamp. I think it's just an impedance thing, guitar and bass pickups are super high impedance, balanced are low impedance, so amp preamps are made to amplify high impedance signals, and when they drive a low one such as a line out it fucks with the frequency response of the preamp.,Hence the whole keyboard into a guitar amp no no thing,Oh right. Can easily knock up a balanced to unbalanced cable. Pretty sure plugging unbalanced cable into balanced out should still work,Weird,Might be your amp then? Usually plug balanced outs of my saffire into unbalanced di inputs with normal unalanced cables for gigs and works fine,pretty sure it just takes the tip and ring and mixes them together, so doesnt fuck with the signal,Hey bud did you want to play this june 9th show as first support? Filling out booking form now.,Yup. I can change the event page whenever but yeah, by the end of the weekend would be nice.,Hey man all good, told em to hold off posting on the grace website for a couple of days while we worked shit out so no stressies. I'll add you to the FB page and update the poster this arvo.,nah, working on spatial practice today at home. Gotta do some documenting etc,Yeah, all done mann, you wanted the commoner bandcamp to be your link right?,Maybe should put a specific track for more indication of what you're doing,   "Fair nuff I'll jsut change it and you can tell me if its good later,   "Will go halves if needed,Fair enough, not the best for vocals hunching over either,Fuck being tall,Ooh, apparently not that bad of a fix too    "Yeah apparently that's a common prob. The unit overheats and the connectors melt, or the wires shift outta place,Not likely fried chips, more likely solder connections/ribbon cables unable to withstand internal heat,Which would be pretty simple, just replace connectors or make new ones,But yeah, wouldn't be able to know til you saw it,8 in out or something? Pretty frigging tempting just for that,That being said, looks like a genuine product defect, which means that the internal temperature is still gunna be high, leading to component failure in the long term,From what I've read,People have been adding computer fans to them,I could help ya out fixing it for dudes,Sures,U got GAS,Howd solo rehearsal go?,Haven't got worksheet yet, but it looks like you'd be on at 9:30,but thats on the booking form, and booker said doors at 8:30, so you'd probably start at 9,Probably something like doors 8:30pm, 3rd support 9:00pm, 2nd support 9:45pm, 1st Support 10:30pm, headline 11:15pm,4 bands matey,we'll try and push it though,if you need a while to get an evolution going you can probs start at 8:45,Oh cool, I was gunna bring my zoom as well so could possibly record ya as well,was thinking about getting some omnis or something from tim and setting up a stereo spread,depends whether I want RMIT gear banging round the gracement,Wouldn't be too hard to do. Depends how many mic stands they have banging round the gracement I guess,woah repetition,too much essays,Another idea could be to bring the zoom and walk around recording different bits of the room while you perform,Would be easier,so you have like, one static mic, and one running around capturing bits,I'll just do that if I can be assed,will be different with glasses clinking and people breathing and talking and air conditioners and crap,will probs create more interesting feedback,I'm looking forward to it. All my assignments are due on the 8th except for <Name>'s on the 9th, so I'll probably be super relieved on the night. Is that assignment on the 10th your last one for semester?,fuckyes,Whose class is that for?,Graverobber,Well I reckon its a pretty good idea, but I love me some feedback,Will be interesting to see it live,Can I send you my mix for final project studio technologies? Did it all cept drums on the voyager at uni. Makes such a difference using decent equipment. Still need to add vocals but wanted to get the instrumentation as tight as possible before adding them.,Cool uploading now,techno divination har har,Cant believe you got all this shit outta feedback,cool slams,   "Filtered noise from moog,Suposed to be kinda screamers like,Yeah had trouble with kick and bass balance,Gotta get back on monitors and mix that in Monday,Yeah, was thinking bout a lead synth riff coming in periodically in the first bit. Was gunna toss vocals in and then play synth to them,Call and response kinda thing,That'd be a good idea, my system is pretty shaky at the moment so would be good to get some input. Might book the studio a few times in the holidays,Cool talk after crazy assessment time is over,Send my brain to mush town,Yerp all goodness. Apparently they got tables we can use at the gd as well.,That's why I follow up so you don't have to \ude43,Yerp, setlist is:D.Gray 9:00-9:30VLF 9:45-10:15InfraGhosts 10:30-11:00<name> 11:15-11:45,tracking vocals in immersive, fricking heaters are so loud,too loud for condenser mics,wish I could turn them off,so intense,just gunna have to use dnamic for vox,came here so I could try out different mics but heater is so distrating,distracting,kool kool, good idea,dunno what time I'll show up coz <Name>was meant to be giving me a lift but her car is arsed,That'd be awesome mann, pretty far outta ya way though?,walk,the whole way,good for the heart,dats the truth. But for reals if you could give me a lift that'd be ace. I'll find out from <Name>if her car is working tonight.,if doors are 8:30 we need to get there by 8:20 or so. probably 7:45 or so?,alrighty,Yeah good call maybnnnnn. I'll make sure I'm ready by 7. Still want me to record ya?,YayYayayayayayaya,If ya feel like procrastinating I'm on me final mix for that track I showed ya last week,Need objectivity,   "Well what's another 3 minutes then,Har har,Sick am eating dinner,Chorus and reversed delay,Probs too much,Yeah, just cutting some lows and a boost in the high mids,Bit of compression on the lead vocal,Might just need to come down a bit. Volume wise,Might have taken some body out of the box with hpf,Vox,I'll A/B and work backwards. Just tracked Vox today,Nah vocals were last thing that I did. Everything else is pretty much locked.,Gm, maybe buss compression or something. They sound ace as shit,It was just someone needed to make an executive decision,Like, we made so many mixes, and they all had strengths and flaws, but we didn't pull the trigger on any,Then you mixed those and they sounded good and we were just like "ok let's do it",Indecision is the worst,Hey don't stress about picking me up tonight just make your own way there, I'm just gunna hang in the city after class and head to the grave darling from there.,Probs early coz I gots nothing else to do,Gunna rehearse in immersive til round 7 then head over so o guess 7:30,Shit Needa get someone to do door,Oh wait provided by grace darling,No stress,Fuck. Good job on mixing that track from the grace darling, loads of cool spatialization stuff,WHA,how did I manage to compliment myself,turned out cool, how much DI and stuff was in there?,yeah, plus woulda tamed the frequencies a bit to have them mixed together,fuck trying to mix however many channels of uncontrolled feedback,I really like how it turned out, super spatial and live sounding,Should have a Liam <Name>jam one of these days soon. Feedback and electromagnetism live looped,Cool will try it out after wedding maybe. When do we go back?,To uni,Opooooo,Well I got Mondayd and Wednesday's off with <Name> and daycare and no school so I was gunna go into immersive at least once a week and work on VLF stuff. Couple of those weeks could be wedding rehearsals and a couple could be jamzz,Wanna try and get a new EP going on hardware and rerecord a bunch of stuff.,Wish I could get into that synth room with the oberheim and the tr8,Maybe we could have a trade, I'll Help ya with your workflow and finishing stuff if you help me out with mixing tricks,Sweet,Then split cassingle by the end of the year,You gunna get a moniker for your solo stuff?,I've been thinking of giving escort of project a name, so sound art/experimental compositions are under one name, dark wave is VLF, guitar stuff savage nobles etc. helps give focus to stuff.,*each sort,Just wanna seperate all my musical interests into compartments so I can develop them individually until they are strong enough to Stand on their own, then let them cross feed,It's all too muddy and unorganised without giving structure to them,I reckon it doesn't even really matter what the name is, just what it represents that is important.,So if we wanna rehearse monday we should check if we can get into the music production studio or whatever. I dont see why we wouldnt be able to go in. I'll bring my guitar/pedals to the city in the morning and drop em off in immersive, then check out whats happening with the other studio. If noone is in it then I'll get you guys to come along?,hm, well we will have to try and work out three phase later in the week then?,cool. I'll have a think then,I asked you if you wanted to play didn't I?,coz you dont have to if ya cbf,Fair enough. Didn't really wanna get there and have it be used. How bout booking drums and guitar amp at three phase. Only be an extra 30 bucks and would make it easier for everyone.,can hire bass cab from three phase as well so you could just bring bass and head,would only be like 20 bucks each even if we hired drums, guitar amp and bass cab,Should I use my guitar for the wedding or try and borrow something with a whammy bar?,Fuck. Next rehearsal remind me to get a feed from the desk into the zoom 4ch for vocals and acoustic guitar,Low shelf eq and multiband are helping,Is it a rack of mic pres or an interface,140?,Yeah but that's rhythm active and everything they sell is waaaay overpriced,Seriously seen toy keyboards on there for like 200 bucks,Like casios,For modular synth nerds with full time jobs in finance,That mic pre is selling for 50 bucks now. Fricking steal at that price. I'd get it if I were you,I'd get it but only have 4 mics so kinda overkill. Would be good for feedback stuff too,8 mics into one input and all the phase inconsistencies and jazz,I think you were thinking about it after we were trying to plug two mics into your mixer on Monday and didn't have enough inputs,Last Monday,Don't ya have that Allen and Heath mixer anyway?,Do you have one? I heard ya can just remove some of the clipping diodes to get a less thrash sound out of it. Seriously just opening it up and removing two parts.,Another pedal to the fuzz collection,Hey buddies what's your bank detailzzzzz,Haha got it. How much was it? Like 85 bucks or something?,Cool sending now,Cool I'll get back to yaz tomorrow,Payment sent,So fucked,   "Tape loops?,Made it Ma!,from behringer 1202 manual,"Clip the digital effects unit only sporadically",So what do ya wanna do about friday?,We'll probably need 2 X Mics (I can bring those)2 X Mic Cables2X Mic StandsBass AmpCocktail KitGuitar AmpJack's GuitarMy GuitarYour BassPedals/Leads/Power SuppliesPowerboard & Extension Lead (Just to be safe, I can bring those)Anything else?,not sure what the venue has by way of mic stands etc, I'm sure they probably have them but dont wanna show up and not have them,I think I've only got one mic clip, screws onto standard mic thread so I'll need you to bring one if you can. Fair call I'll just have to see how things go with Friday. I reckon I could arrange someone to watch <Name> Friday afternoon while we load in.,<Name>'s at the hotel getting pampered Friday arvo so I got <Name>. I reckon someone like <Name>or mum might be around on Friday so no stress.,All good. <Name>'s fam will be around. I can probably cadge a lift to Collingwood and just meet you there about 5 on Friday, or maybe 6 if we want to avoid peak hour. Will bring my gear and mics. Possible we might get there and find out we don't need stands etc. I'll email them now and ask.,Pretty sure we will load in from the back. Maybe we could just try and get there by 4:45. Beat peak hour and rush on the way, load in and face it on the way back.,I think there is. Laneway out the back.,Nah man, you just gotta make your own way there with the gear, I'm cadging a lift with <Name>s sister so I'll meet ya there round 4:45 if that's cool? You know where it is right?,Good call. See ya then bud \ude43\ude43\ude43\ude43,   ya go bud,Hey I made a recording of the dark boost just so ya can check if it sounds like you remember. Basically it goes, bypassed, on no fuzz, middle fuz pot, fuzz pot all the way on\   "watched some youtubes and sound the same pretty much,fuck its a subtle effect,anyway I'll scrounge up a knob for ya and then you'r done,2 years later or whatever,wsoz for being sucha selfish bastard,Coo man I'll give it to ya Friday if you're round. Also joyo voodoo octave thingy,I figured it'd be good for driving an amp,Can I borrow it for a bit, just a year or two.,KIDDING,Been thinking about building a treble boost for geetar,Super simple build,Once I stop sold<Name>g oscillators and condenser mics for this sculpture project I'll do it,Don't have enough need more,Yeah basically high pass guitar to above 10khz,And bass below 100,Maybe I'll chuck a single cool in my bridge pickup,And shield the fuck out of it with alfoil,Or just get a brighter guitar,Yeah I got some a while ago but never got round to it,Fuck, mixing <name> has been crazy,Having to be subtle with fx and stuff is very new to me,gaddamn,can I send ya a mix, ears tired,   "good call actually,lol reference mix achieved,yeah, reverb is a bit much,yeah was tossing up on that,sposed to be a intimate kinda breathy thing,ill give it a few days and come back to it,could be phone speaker though,  mono would sound heaps diff,thanks for input tho,I head ya,hear,my hands are like ice mits,Hey man, how ya doing? Feel like testing out a max patch I made for uni?,Cool beans no stress not due til later,Testing UI,,there ya go,lemme know if yahave any probs,ps no rush its due tomorrow,KkKkK,Did the help pop up come up?,Draw a waveform in the bottom black bar, and draw some shapes in the middle and top,Should start making some noise,It's like a massive 512 step sequencer where the red bar is the current step,You can use QuickTime btw,PS I just realised you have to fiddle with the dry wet knobs to get sound going,fuck will change,okay,oh wait i see what you mean,hang on I recorded a video tutorial on how to get it working,ists pretty hard to explain, might have to use a readme or something,thats what I was worried about though!,hm, might be a coding thing,wanted to have them syncable but also abel to be locked into time,I mean, work independently,gunna work n the speed control, thanks man,that'd be great thanks man,cool!,yeah I can see where ya got snagged,got some cool soudns though,need o sort out the dry wet things,patch got way too complicated coz I kept adding features,was originally jsut sine oscillaors with no filter, so you just set speed and then pitch and you're good,but I got obsessed with wavetables,Hey bud how's ya brain? What was the name of the shop you bought the volcas from again? Doing a little shopping in Akihabara today.,Frigging awesome. I'm gunna head up now but just checking stuff out. Japan is my spiritual home. Just spend ages in radio parts center and then stopped off at creators land and played a arp2600. Wet dreams. How you doing?,Hey man, I'm doing good, ME and <Name> finally quit smoking at new years so I've been holed up at home alone trying not to explode with rage at the slightest thing so we might be a bit of a fucked pairing the last couple weeks. Sorry to hear you've been feeling a bit overwhelmed. It's all relative though, when getting out a bed and getting dressed is a struggle, getting out of the house/working/having to hide stuff can be exhausting AF. I've been there and know what it's like man, no stress. Had a weird lucid dream the other night that we reformed savnobs with a drum machine and played a festival in the mountains somewhere not sure it was aus but anyway it was very reverb and cavernous and <Name>was some sort of caretaker of the property we were on. I can do Monday, Wednesday and Thursday days or sometime on the weekend possibly with notice. Monday might be good if you're free. Still feeling out this new setup but might be fun to bounce some ideas around.,Oh shit whoops I accidentally pocket dial led you before no stress,For reals though check out Les Rallizes Denudes for the car if you ahvent heard em before\   "Ooh yeah, the bass player was I the Japanese Red army sect and hijacked a plane but Mizutani the lead singer is just an insane recluse that hates recording studios and publicity and unleashes noise waves from his axe,Nah I heard of em from the internet but been meaning to read that actually,Yasser,That'd be awesome,Yeah ya welcome to pop round whenever or we can actually jamolo next week or something,Or jujust I'm super shit with social stuff at the moment. Bit of a self imposed hermitage going on so been weirdly bad at pulling the trigger on jams and stuff. Sorry if I made ya feel a bit fucked around or anything like that.,Such a weird state where I feel really isolated yet don't really want to go out and do anything and it feeds into itself in an endless loop until I eventually just feel proud of myself for making a cup of tea?,Anyway we should do jammings. I'm Pissed at myself for not doing enough tangible music shit this holidays,Maybe we can prod each other into something,Yeah man, I can totally do that. In building 6? What time is good for ya?,I'll just check with <Name> and see if she's working that night or not,Yah I can do that for suresies,Should we book 6.1.9?,Cool I'll see if it's free but don't see why not,I'll print have to split round 5ish,Probs,Bam,Yeah let's do it man I got the night off too,What you gunna bring?,PS what have you been doing/want to do,Okay cool I'll bring my ms20 and volca and possibly mc505, sq1 and pedals. We can probably sync from your ableton I can print my midi interface if need be,Brinf,Goddammit bring,Oh yeah it's got the worst presets I've ever heard bit been using it to midi sequence and for mangled drum sounds,Ooh yeah it's the height of 1998 technology,Hey man I can't make it Wednesday sorry I know it's been a long time coming but I gotta be home as <Name>s shift got changed and I gotta be here coz she ordered some packages online,Can do Thursday though or the weekend sometime,Pretty bummed as it was super last minute for <Name>'s work.,I think Saturday might be alright actually. I'll ask <Name>,Yeah let's do Saturday!,Sick, sorry bout weds,whups pretty sure i only got one file and was figurehead rehearsal,yeah probs,no strazzles,just opened it up and as like, woah I thought we sounded different,nah I had ste 000,nah it only copied one file for some reas,maybe my phone buttfucked itself,and we were all like "2017 can't believe I can use my phone for dis wow",is there an easy way for you to convert em to m4a or summat?,digital headroooms,if it were me I'd just convert em to mp3 and bung em on google drives,might give us more direction maybe next time if we have a common shared memory base to work from or something,use itunes! its super easy,you just load em into itunes and right click and go convert to m4a or mp3 or whatever you have it set to,or even easier\   "I forgot you can just use finder,encode selected audio files,sikkk,was nive seein ya today manolo, should hang more often once uni starts eh?,yeah me too,coz deep down I hate everyone including myself,lawl,not that deep down actually,ready to explode at any moment,sik, fuckign australian internet though,apparently lithuania has the fastest internet in the world,good labelling,I get like 20k/s or some slow crap like that,do you have the google drive desktop app? its actaully pretty good,I use it all the time, just bounce shit to m4a with finder, save it to the google drive folder and let it sync in the background and then listen to it on my phone when I'm taking a crap or whatever, the convenience is breathtaking,for shame,i spend way too much time trying to streamline mundane processes,fucking loved japan,go down the stairs but on this side, wait in line at the bank, wait for people to get off the train before you get on and don't talk too loudly and put your rubbish in the bin and take your shoes off and everyone does it because they have the constant threat of social suicide and embarrassment over their heads,its how I imagine women and minorities must feel in aus,Man I'm actually pretty into the more experimental shit we did yesterday, and the faster synthpunky type stuff,Totally, let's get together again soon ey?,Man thats probs just an arduino due or something,you could do this fairly easily with some clever coding and a decent arduino,if you wanted heaps of samples youd eed to get external ram chip and do all that fun stuff though,or read off an sd card,totally doable,pretty code intensive though,?? Raspberri pi and pd,Would work awesome,Didn't think of thst,Yeah Raspberri pi running puredata might be the goer,I was gunna buy a rpi anyways,Smooth jazz,I should get out my Yamaha fret less and we can have slide battles,Soldered. Fuckin clean job too,Can't believe I managed it in this heat,It was either that or Frickin ear buds all week,Oh yeah fuck Dat I mean for home times,I'm not being over ears around unless I need a do some serious furrowed brow type listening,You called Don.,was dfinitely consid<Name>g it,its like pretty close to my house,yeah, like 10 minutes ride, just gotta sort out some cahs for entry, pretty frickin broke atm,franks ususally in bed by 7:30 so I'd proably show aroudn 8ish, might miss a bit of the first act,pretty close to batman station or the 19,maybe 10 min walk from sydney rd I reckon,yeah cool <Name> said I can go,I'll scrounge up 10 bucks,Didn't Rod Cooper teach courses at RMIT?,cool,reckon Ari is gunna do that TV durational thing again?,cooooooooo,didn;'t even know magnet existed,too outta the loop,looks like they do heaps of stuff,cool, good place to check out,have you been/would you go?,Sounds cool,man I might start using them for solo rehearsal,literally just strap on me backpack adn ride over there,Haha. Well someone needs to play bass,Someone needs to lock it down,How often do they have them usually?,Cool,I might go next month as next  night isn't great,Ooh yeah There's a BWS like 5 minute walk from the place,What cheap beers can I drink ethically again?,Fucking shite,Is it decent?,Nice,What time you showing up to this nose gigolo, trying to figure out what I'm doing,Cool banans, I'll see what time I get there possibly round 8.,Cool beans. Could possibly just walk from my place and meet you at the tram stop if ya want.,Woah,Okay cool I'll be later than you,Still getting <Name> to bed ,Still occasionally listen to obscure saviors rehearsals from Sav nob city. That rehearsal at bakehouse was hot as shit,Still possible with a drummer,Do you know what the hell we are meant to write for the site analysis? I imagine its a sort of subjective breakdown of sound within the site?,man so vague,gimme a rubric,I can work with a rubric,how ya doing? sorry for talking at ya the other day,yeah not too bad, good chatolos. Was just hoping I didnt make you uncomfortable or anything. Had a bit of a mental health day today and jsut sat around watching nathan barley and twiddling ms20,its by charlie brooker, that guy that made black mirror,and its about vapid hipsters in london,its pretty good,??,haha yeah no makes sense now, anyway its a blaster of a show,good procrastination material,I gotta slam out this space thing before I go up to gussies for the weekend,but I live in CBF world,yeah I gues we shouldnt overthink it,I'm gunna have to go back over my notes for sound cultures,what an inconvenience! My handwriting is TERRIBLE,yeah true, classic <Name>,How ya doin bud,?,Not much, been up in Canberra for the break and getting back on Tuesday. Hows all ya uni stuff going? I've pretty much done nothing for like two weeks,Oh good at least I'm not the only one! Oh yeah, did you end up gettign that video done? Yeah cool with Chris Gray? How'd that go?,cool, can I see it? Yeah he's a cool guya nd his style is fairly easy to slot into I reckon,sppoooooky,got sitracted by   <name> interview video,havent in a while, is he kinds going a bit haywire? from what I can see on fb he's a bit all over the place,Oh ok, well I saw him acouple of weeks ago and he seems fine, bit depressed maybe,existential crisis like everybody else.Think he is focusing on doing photos and jazz for the most part so mightnt be too social. He kinda goes off on phases where he doesnt see anyone for like a couple of months and then wants to be around people IMO.,yeah, I think he's doing a bit of the ol' indecisive loop thing at the moment. Just keep at it. Hopefully he doesnt move to sydney randomly lol,I'm up in Canberra our nations captial til ANZAC day, studying in the NLA today, so nice.,Naw, staying up in Canberra eating <Name>'s parents food while they take <Name> on trips. Nice little sojourn back to my teenage years,Yo is this composition thing for <Name>'s class still due next week?,Okay cool, I might message him and ask for an extension coz have like no idea what to do. So like nonlinear structures and systems of improvisation?,Cool thanks might take some of them down. What are you doing for the composition?,So like, rupture,I might just brainstorm and see what I can come up with,Kind of Pissed at lack of guidance for this class tbh. I like <Name> but I could use a bit more feedback/input into the whole class. The whole contextual lecture then assignment/composition thing breeds indecision for me.,Like have no idea if he even recieved my assignment let alone whether it was true to the brief,Or was close to it or whatever,Too depressed to trust my intuition,Yeah, I assume I am overthinking as usual and most of the time when I have trouble it's friction from  coming against my own standards which are impossibly high,I spose we shouldn't be looking for to their people to give us incentive or motivation to make interesting/good work but still would like some ideas on where I could improve form an objective standpoint,Otherwise why am I at uni. Could think of a one sentence brief and watch some ubuweb video and have a similar result,I reckon it was sound students complaining having to write essays and study art history so they kinda slade up this class,Made,I'm just gunna pull something entirely out of my ass and see what happens,could jsut hand in something I've already dont which kidna fits,I got so much b roll from the last couple years,done,anyway how ya doing otherwise?,settled in Nth Melbs?,yeah fair call. plus you just use push mostly nowadays don't ye?,oh yeah I gotta reset my studio tonight. Got me a hdmi cable for dual monitors so gunna watch some sick shows while rolling cables,giving myself the night off,lol self care,Haha pretty shittily. Still don't really know what I'm gunna do. <Name> is working all weekend so not much opportunity til tonight. What about you?,Haha spk style. So you are doing a cut ups kind of thing,Might do an improv,Probs Ms20 sounds d design type thing. Improvising to a theme and letting the narrative structure develop around jd recurring themes or something like,shit though actually have no idea what I am doing for this. Possibly won't have anything by monday either. First time in this course I've been genuinely stumped as to what to do. Sent <Name> an email on Tuesday as to some sort of guidance for the project and he hasn't gotten back to me. I don't wanna lose marks but literally finding it hard to do anything right now. I wanna email for an extension but I'm pretty sure he won't reply. Shit life.,Yeah I know. Kind of fucked tbh. I like <Name> but maybe he's got his fingers in too many pies. Or maybe no one is doing the assignments and he's just kinda given up?,Yeah that's a good point. I'm not really stressing over marks so much, just not having a reference point is giving me anxiety for some reason. Facing the blank page. I should just start doing something and worry about it later.,true. I'll get off facebook and do it. Thanks for listening to my rants,thanks man, good to have somebody on the same wavelength sometimes. I ended up doing a improvised score to a nuclear bomb test. Getting somewhere,DLing now. I got this.\   "This is sick.,respiration noises A+,you could even take the breathing noises further, layer/granulate them or something if you were going for that,Haha thanks hope it's not too short,Yeah that makes sense. Otherwise it gets too messy right? I might just leave it as is. Anything I'd add to mine would Probs just be filler so I might just leave it as is.,Woah double sentence,I'm rainmanning today,Yeah it's totally almost done,Totally can see the narrative as well which is good,Well yeah more of a stream of conscioussness type vibe than a Dickens novel but still a definite thematic link between elements,Hey man I can't come to class today as <Name> is sick home from school. If you are heading in can you let me know if I miss anything crucial?,Cool yeah I saw that, pretty sure either had an improved class with <Name> last year where he payed Derek bailey,Improv,Coolos I'll check it our,He's alright, got some antibiotics into him,Haha yeah it should sort him out in a couple of days thank Fark,Oh fuck that's this Sunday?! I sorry man it's mothers day. Having luclnch with <Name> maw,<Name> and mum,Haha, I'd get my head chopped off if I tried it,Gonna cook a leg of lamb or something,Yep totally down only couldn't do it coz of mothers day. If you were able to repay the favour I might need a studio assist for this assignment I got due on the 30th,Sick of running between rooms,Woah cool, how'd you get that gig? No stress about helping out was just throwing out the feelers. <name> said we should pair up with some from class anyway so nurses.,man I just started my journal for sound cultures,figured I'd at least do half this week and then the other half the day before its due,I've done four artworks,I've done five artworks,I am doing no more artworks for now coz my wrist is tired,Yeah man I'm alright just got a fucker of a cold so stayed in bed Monday as much as possible. How'd Sunday go?,Oh shit did we have class today? Thoight it was swotvac,Pretty much done. I just been doing like 100-200 words where fits. Like a paragraph or two. Don't think hell be to strict cause I can't imagine him reading like a 2000 word subjective treatise form everyone tbh,It'll only take ya couple of hours. Just do like 4 per day while staring at an image/listening to the sound work and talk about why you like it and what inspires you.,Just get started on one,I can send ya mine if it'll help,Cool man I'll be home in about quarter of an hour and will send it through,By no means is mine a perfect example, if anything should take stress off ya with my mindless blath<Name>g,,nw hope it helps,just taking the structure of describe work, context and then why it inspires/influences me/my work,still needa do like five more too,also needs an edit/proofread,cool thanks, its actually kind of fun after you get started,How'd you go with your journal?,Maybe we should have a jam for our final composition,Haha, was probably better than you thought it was,Fair call. I'm still stuck on what to do.,Thank fuck I had an idea for my final composition,I am getting the intros, the little bits before the song starts, from every recording I have archived from when I was a kid til now (that I can fine) and normalising them and stitching them all together. Some really interesting noises,so much material to sort through,I always know I just tell myself I dont,self doubt ftw,man this is actually a really nice piece to make. super nostalgic,up to like 2009,its funny as my grasp of recording technology has heightened, there is less noise at the start of songs and I learnt to hold my breath til the first note,My attitude toward archived material is so immature. There's so much stuff that I've already done. Like you were saying the other day, you did that commoner stuff which was super abstract and experimental,holy fuck I keep rememb<Name>g old tapes and old hard drives and jazz with heaps of material on them,already 6 minutes long just with 3 to 4 secs of each song,what do you reckon is the last savnobs live recording we have,yeah,its alright, I found it I think on your google drive, almost done now!,ooh sounds good, will bring hard drive next time I see ya,still good to have. Just finished doing the savnobs compilation of the bits between songs,,haha I can finally stop holding my breath,no stress man,fair call, good luck with moving,Just finished my final composition + statement,thank fark,its my last bi of work for this semester!,still got a couple of days,stress = motivation,No worries, figured you were busy. Let's do it! I'll have to come round and see your new setup,Haha yeah fair call,Oh yeah I had an old elvis - words and music tape which I used to put on when I was drunk and alone so I could drink with the king,my fucking delay pedal whine through the whole thing,Hey man, yeah not too bad, cruising through holidays. How bout you?,Giving myself a week or two to refr sh after uni then doing some admin stuff, artist website and resume and VLF band camp etc,Wanna play a gig by end of holidays too,Yeah, gotta pull the trigger,I reckon if I book it I'll get my shit together for it,Shame is a good motivation,I dunno, if you are playing with figurehead and there's an opening slot let me know? Or if ya wanna share the load we can book a show,That sounds promising, I gotta do some solo rehearsal,Hell yeah,<Name>missed a video chat with you.,Yeah my pocket loves ya,Fucking android,My aunt gave me some dosh for my birthday, should I get a mess membership?,Would it make me more or less productive I wonder,check it out I gots half a website www.liamfpower.com,thanks man, i have absolutely no idea what I am doing,cargo collective,css wrangling,bought a domain name and redirected it,only cost me 13 bucks a year,dong-<name>.com,cool vid tho,yeah cargo collective is pretty easy to use,   <name> got me on to it,in fact his website inspired me in the first place,thanks man, yeah agonized over layout for a bit that for sure. Hopfully will have more shit to add soon,then again I dont think there needs to be that much stuff right, jsut a portfolio of stuff ive done so far,yeah, like a hub to pull together all the loose social media ends,and some sort of idea of aesthetic/running themes,haha put aside a week or so,next is business cards,then suit and tie and hang around the offices of creative victoria,catchin pennies that fall out of bourgeois coffers,Playin the game,dude come round and we'll do an art business day. I need motivating as much as you do,plan strategy,or I can see your new place. im free monday wed thurs this week for hangs,thats cool, I'm free so no stress either way. lets pencil in wednesday then if you end up having reheasal we can reschedule,Yo do you reckon I could borrow your four track for a couple of weeks to make an EP?,Can repay favour with gear repairs or something. Could take a look at sub phatty,Okay cool! Maybe I can come over and you can show me how to use it?,Could probably give it a bit of a service,Yeah cool I'll see why my schedule is like Thursday but defs can come by!,Yeah man I can drop by whenever,I dunno. Gotta check t4ams but id say round 8 or so?,Nice nice nice. Is there a bottleo near tait?,Cool beans. I'll see ya there then!,Haha, nah i'm alright. Same to you bud, hopefuly see ya wednesday?,cool,we jamming or lanning?,im into jamming lol,Are we jamman tomoz,Cool I'll let ya know what I'm doing later on.,Wanna do a low key jam thing with volcas/electribe? I'll just bring what I can shove in my backpack,Eh that's cool, just make sure to let me know how ye travelling next time so I'm not lugging all my gear round town all day. Take it easy bud,Don't stress about it too much, just lemme know next time.,Anyway, hope ya feel better soon man.,How ya doin bud?,Yeah good man, just a real long along. Got the creative strategies ebook a nd working through some roadblocks. Had a good jam with   <name> last week. Four track is ready if ya need it back whenever.,That 74 creative strategies hardcover ableton book that you got has an ebook version which I am reading atm. Pretty Frickin good.,Me and   <name> made all sorts of weird crap. Disco and house type stuff mainly but like dark wave too. Just gave him a sequencer and a few synths and let him twiddle knobs,Super fun,Working through it definitely a lot of patterns that I recognize,Ah shit I'm really sick so staying in bed today. Looks good though,yeah, im there thursday and friday morning so far. How bout you?,Oh yeah I got wednesday too,FYI not sure if ya still looking for these    "yeah, volca sampe and fm are the ones to have,keys is still a good one though,got me a raspberri pi zero in the mail btw. gunna try and make some sort of granular sampler thing similar to microgranny with it,whered u get polarity flipper?,Nah it's cool just thought you might found some special bargain or summat,Damn in cheap,I'm,Oh yeah got me a new macbook pro,Yeah baby it's soo good,13 inch early 2015,Already have enough dongles in my life,Yeah smashing ableton super low latency,So good,Lol just get him to crack 9.7,It's on pirate bay,im running cracked 9.7 and works fine,if hes worried he can install both at the same time no issues,buy him external drive lol,man bad digital hygiene gives me heebies,obsessed with backups nowadays,makign backups of my backups,never used em but yeah, in principle. Should ask   <name> curtis, he's the expert,Hes a nice dude,Knows his shit too which is refreshing,I'll have a little look around tonight for ya. Sure there's loads of midi controlled solenoid projects on instructables and stuff,Try Googling midi solenoid drums arduino easy free <Name>gray cheap,   "pretty expensive but you could get the bare board and solder your own solenoids to cables,the hardest part would probs be coding and the circuits for the solenoids,   even this guy outputs 12v pulses so could probs drive the solenoids,yeah, a midi to trigger kit, and a bunch of these\   "and some solenoids and you'd be off and running,Yeah man it was like 7 bucks,I got the one without wifi cox I'm using it for midi anyway,its super easy, I use vosyr    kinda fun transferring them over audio, feels very old school. Kinda makes you commit to samples because of limited sample memory/length,plus its got insane amounts of bass and the controls are super nice,sucks ass for chromatic stuff unless you like micromanaging tiny volca knobs, but I imagine youve got your electribe for that,www.retrokits.com/rk-002/,I was about to pull the trigger on one of these. Means you can play all samples on one channel and play chromatic stuff. You can program it to do the chromatic playing on whatever channel ya want too,Plus powered by midi,Do a massive music gear nuts post and sell off all your old stuff ya don't use,I can come round and help you one day if ya want,youve been saying you should since I've known you lol,mgn is really good as well,you could probs get an octatrack or something,or digitakt,and I could drool onto it,I'm probs gunna sell some shit too so need experience in selling some shit,nah but I was looking at that earlier lol,was thinking about putting that firmware on my pi when I get it,man those critter and gutari things seem super overpriced to me imo. like that thing is basically just an arduino in a nice case with some fancy buttons,Not too bad. Expanding practice is a bit of a shitshow. Merged with audio tech 1b so there's kids that don't know what a Daw is so we're kinda frustrated. Other classes look great so far. How bout you?,man do object in sculpture and sound. It was so good,seriously one of the best classes I've done,We did circuit bending in week 2,10/10 would repeat,Also had <Name> brophy for immersive environments the other day,was kinda of hesitant cause I 've heard hes a hard ass,but hes super cool,Yeah most of the class was just me and him talking,in front of the rest of the class,lol,cold medication makes me chatty af,Yeah, I've had a mammoth one. Chest infection for like 2 weeks,Neverending snot and phlegm,Yeah I think I got shit lungs from smoking so its me own fault,which makes it a million times worse,lol,But headcold/cold medication is actaully fairly good for first week as I've been forced to think laterally and planned most of my projects for thsi semester already,Hell yeah,That's really useful,Me you know what artists are like will probably forget it if we did it in the middle,But yeah we did a grant application for <name>'s class last semester before he flew the coop,Roll the dice,I'm doing an application for the next wave liquid architecture tote thing,Yeah,Yeah hope it goes okay,gotta do budgeting which is the most annoying part,robbie rowlands and micheal graeve as far as I know,robbie rowlands and micheal graeve as far as I know,robbie rowlands and micheal graeve as far as I know,robbie rowlands and micheal graeve as far as I know,robbie rowlands and micheal graeve as far as I know,woah duped,shityeah,I know hat you mean. Felt the same with <Name> last semester. I mean our choices are limited as far as lecturers are concerned, and I'm pretty sure you can choose who to talk to about your project eg robbie rowlands is super experienced and awesome,Nah man, at home with <Name> today coz he's a bit sick today. We should catch up next week?,Yeah, next week im in Wednesday Thursday,OOO shite,I got class in there tomorrow morning, reckon you could squirrel it away in the mic locker or something?,sick as thanks man, its only my worthless ideas,Sikkk,thanks man,ya going to this opening at <place> tonight?,<name>, second year, got a oslo show opening,solo,you said interested on FB so wasn't sure.,I'm goin, will probs show up at like 6.30,Don't feel like ya have to go was just asking if you were planning in going,Oh wait opening is tomorrow night,lol,I needa have a nap obvs,poop,Meh there'll be more thangs,I you coming to this Michel chion masterclass thing next week?,You mighta got a email from <Name> samartizis before semester started or maybe its just consolation prize for second years having to go through a bunch of annoying admin shit this semester,kkk ill find it,kool sent through,not sure who it was meant for as I'm the only one CC'd,ohhhhh sorry, I assumed it was for all the sound kids,maybe its just for our year,ppl in my class were talking bout it today,Maybe <Name> didnt send the email to you because he hates you,I'm pretty sure I don't get like hald the emails that are meant for me coz ya know school of art,yeah he's like "what are you still doing here Don?" "When are you goign to move to berlin and become a IDM house producer?",Berlin is synth heaven,one day,The eternal question,<Name> bropho was talking about that in class today,The struggle is real,self confidence, lack of motivation and inability to know when something is finished are like the biggest hurdles to overcome imo,You do some really good stuff though. I think you are too hard on yourself. I mean, the fact that you are even having existential thoughts about your art puts you above like 80 percent of artists I know,I reckon its just different ways of communicating. I am actually the cerebral artsy one in the second years most of the time (read: the guy that talks in class all the time) and I can tell they  resent me for it, but the way I learn and engage with the course is by repeating everything the lecturer says in my own terms and trying to discuss it and find references I understand. You probably learn and engage in a different way though.,Like there's the people who learn by thinking and discussing and the people that learn by just sitting down and doing the shit,both have pros and cons,And its not like you're some troglodyte who cant string two words together, I think you second guess yourself more than those kids.,Sorry for rant just been thinking abotu different methods of learning,Like, I was fucking intimidated by micheal graeves for a whole semester.,Still kind of am,Its like he has some sort of really sensitive authenticity meter which you can see going off in his face coz he has this wierd brain with an encyclopaedic knowledge of art,But I'm pretty sure thats just how his brain works,Then I walked into his class this semester and he was like, Hey Liam, what have you got for us this semester? Excited to see what you come up with,I was like whaa,ego boost,He's super genuine which is nice,I'm loving having brophy for immersive,He's super cool, am also scared of him a bit,probably the least scared in the class though. Literally everyone is silent,coz they have heard he's a hard ass and they dont wanna show their hand too early in case he comes down on them,such timid kids inmy year,like 5. I recruited someone from sculpture today so nwo we are 6,doing my part for RMIT funding,Yeah I know,we had like 20 at the start of the year,Apparently there is actually 1 dude in first year,lol,wtf put him in with us,I can't believe it. Numbers are waning like crazzy in the sound department,<name>, <name>, <name>, <name>, this new kid <name>, and Will,and me,so 7,will is pretty quiet. <name> just started this year and <name> is on exchange,fuck why arent I SSCC,Just sent through email,totally forgot about that actually,Yeah really good. <name> was chuffed. Really good to see someone from class exhibiting work.,Michael greaves was meant to show but he live din castlemaine so was like nah soz. <name> also bailed so methinks the cold was a barrier to student teacher duty,Gunna make sure my first opening is on a warm night with nothing else on,Jake showed up,For a bit which is cook,What is this group project you are doing?,Ooh cool,Let me know when it's happening,Haha, flash mob type show? Where,Cool. Is there a theme you guys a working to?,Badass,Lol doing a similar thing in Oct with a bunch of kids,Hope we don't clash dates,Gunna do a video slash performance night at loop in oct sometime,Themes around degradation,Waiting for loop to get back to me tho,Yeah coz I'm an idiot,Possibly   <name> Curtis, <Name> <Name>and cal something or other video art dude,True I can credit myself thus,It's like the same as organizing a gig except somehow artists are flair than musicians,Flakier,Just as thankless and stressful,Oh wait that's just working in the arts right,Nah I still gotta cram for it tbh,Hey do you know who the SSCC rep for third year is?,Okay cool, do you reckon you could ask aroudn in your studio major class who want's to come along? If you wanna do it you can I think,Sorry, morning brain. I mean is <name> in your third year class?,Oh okay cool well then I'll tell <name> Summers to get in contact with her,Oh okay cool banas,Feel like by last semester third year the SSCC becomes somewhat redundant though. I mean any change enacted would probably be after you graduated anyway. Gotta have a benevolent spirit.,Hey man yeah whenever I ain't using it since I got a new compo! Im going into the studio Monday cam drop it round on my way? Otherwise after class Thursday when you're in as well?,Thanks man. Yeah realised it was more a mental blockage than a computer centric thing which u suspected from the start anyway lol,I mean which I suspected typo whups,Cool I'll let ya know when I'm coming by could possibly be in the morning course I got the studio from 111,11,Can drop it off somewhere discreet round the side of your place if ya still slumb<Name>g,Okay cool banananana,Lol. Does it? Do you download or stream?,Good call. Was gunna say ill grab it off you but might have to acquire it by other less legal means,Need new ep,Apparently it leaked,I did some research but I didn't download it because that would be unethical mr Zuckerberg,I WOULDN'T DOWNLOAD IT USING A VPN EVEN BECAUSE IT IS UNETHICAL,\ude09\ude09\ude09\ude09\ude09\ude09\ude09\ude09\ude09,Yeah did that track for Expanding Practice. Hopefully Cecil gives it the seal of approval,Oh yeah on the down low we have a sound student common room now.,I acquired it from the school of art,Nah they didn't show at either,What were you guys worried about? Next meeting is on Sept 14th,Or should I talk to <name>,Yeah I'm just ironing out the final details with the school of art but will let everyone know next week,Yeah we're pushing for that,Lockers would be ace,There's 2 macs with pro tools ableton Adobe cc,So that's pretty sweet,Yeah and we found the old c24 control desk,That we mixed membrane on,I had ptsd flashbacks,Lol,Anyway so our grievances have all been sorted out. I did the gear list myself and the common tool is semi operational now,Which is all the second years were really pushing for,Feels so good to get shit done when at the start of the semester things were so fucked,If things were fucked enough to draw ME out of apathy then they must have been bad,I know everybody is really excited! Hmu when you're in campus and I'll take you to look at it. Once <name> from <name> gets back to me I'll be able to distribute the news more widely. <name> Summers is actually the best as she fought for us to get a space,Cool beans I'm going in Wednesday morning to rehearse a performance so gunna use the common room from like 11-1 probably,Yeah Tim Catlin deleted my session for some reas so I'll just go into hr common room for a bit methinks.,Think he's pissed I didn't go to him about this whole common room business,Ill let ya know when I'm round your place though,Haha possibly making another work,Haha, don't bother him on a Sunday,Sorry man ended up staying home today coz weather was super shit. Thursday lunchtime?,Shit, sorry didn't realise ya needed it urgenczia. I'm home all night + tomorrow,Okay cool, well yeah all the channels are working so it should be good to go. I'll clean the heads and stuff for ya,Hey could possibly drop it round a bit later if ya need? Christobel is here and said she would give me a lift.,Shit poops watched got and now it's too late,Fuckin ice dragon though,Yeah I'm just at home with <Name>. Pop by if you want or we can jump on a tram if ya need,Sorry I meant to get it to you today,If you are using the synchronator I'll show you some stuff I did with it you can defs run audio through it and into the synchronator but if probably wont take a video signal coz the sync signal used with video is like 20khz or something, way above the frequency that cassette tape runs at,the way that VHS players do it is by dividing down a frequency to tape and then multipying it back up in video output,but without sync signal the TYV doesnt know what type of singnal it is, pal NTSC etc and so it doesnt work most of the time,signal,Come round and I'll show you some tips for the synchronator I experimented the shit out of it with a guitar pickup and it made soem really interesting patterns,Yeah sounds good, see ya then,No probs just hanging round home so no rush,You bastard. Yeah went pretty well, quite draining though. I locked right the fuck up halfway through and had to do heavy mouth breathing into the mic but it kind of worked lol.,Ill let ya know next time and you can sit in if you want. If nothing else it'll probably be schadenfreude for ya,me too, this class is full of it. Performance class full of introverted, self important art students. Gunna bring popcorn next time,Yeah I saw that a while ago. Looks legiiiit. Tbh you'd be able to get pretty close with a midi controller and a raspberry pi running puredata if you weren't fussy about analog/digital,Nah I just left. Gotta pick up franolo,Did ya get access from security?,Oh well if you knock on the door there might be someone there.its just like a closed door. 4.2.09,First on the right when you go up the steps into building 4,Says video and sound on a sign on the right hand side,Go to security and get the form!,Oh wait might be too late,Yeah I'm trying to get an email sent out to everyone in sound with pictures and instructions on how to get access. Can't use it really til after the break coz they are remodeling o think,As in I've sent the email to the head of sound and school of art asking them to send it out and they haven't coz bureaucracy,Mixing and junk? I'll ask around,I was gunna show up so I definitely help with cabling, setting up gear and stuff, but we need someone who knows how to work a desk in a live sound capacity obviously. I'll ask the second years and see who might wanna help out,If worst comes to worst I'm happy to give it a shot. I've mixed shows before... not well.. but have done it,Is it just gunna be people Diing mixers and computers?,I can totally handle that,You need a showrunner,Drumkits another story, but upstairs I dont think you needa close mic everything,Will in my class who has done a shitton of live sound is cool to help out,Yeah, he was going anyway so he's down,I'll assist him,Maybe buy him a beer or something,Or put him on the door obvs,Cool, yeah I told him its not paid. He's a nice dude so no stress. I got class with him next week so will let ya know more then.,You owe us a favour when you're all making it in the big bad art world though,Holden,Just set and forget synchronator from board outs,lol,Das cool I live to serve you,Its as solid a yes as I can get from him over facebook messenger. I can confirm on wednesday in person.,Nah wasn't a jab I just don't trust anything til I confirm it in person,I hear ya bud. Understandable in your last semester!,Try not to worry about it. It'll work out for sure. Think of how many savnobs shows we somehow orgnlanised,Well if you consider the worst then it's only up from there,I'm happy to pay door as well BTW to support my fellow students,What a sacrifice lol,Nah take my money pls. People never pay for shit anymore,mine is s3589549@student.rmit.edu.auwills is s3564503@student.rmit.edu.au,Not too bad busy AF, just slammed out a proposal for <place> on sunday, got three big assessments due this week, plus <Name> is about to die of stress coz its her last semester of uni. How'd sunday go?,Sounding good?,Ohh yeah I used that mixing last weekend, smashes some drums through it. Works well for glue,haha,the eternal mix,I literally just close the session and sigh in disgust and thats when I know I'm finished,Knew it,goddamn,good I wanted to mix a song for final project,I had audio from a mixer going out into the video channels through the tape outs, and then I added a guitar pickup to a channel and cranked the gain and moved it around near the synchronator so that it would pick u the stray electromagnetic feedback from the circuitry inside and then out through the tape outs to synchronator then pack into the pickup etc.,cant remember if I had the syncronator on a send or not,Oooh yeah baby. What a find!,Yeah he recommended that to me,Oh yeah I did have the synchronator on a send I think,So I had the synchronator on a send, then pickup on a channel and then cranked the send on the pickup channel so it went into feedback,give it a shot, its pretty fun,Yo I need your opinion on a mix when ya got time,   "Thanks bud. Its a pretty big arrangement and my brain is just on a tweakfest,I 80s shredded at the end \ude05,Yeah I had the riff stuck in my head for like 2 years,lol,So many elements to balance, so hard to get the big picture,its for cecils class,last critique I got for less than zero was was the mix was  'a bit thin'. So obviously I added like a thousand layers.,haha thanks. Yeah he's pretty hard to please,was kind of thinking about getting a live drummer,Like keeping the kick and snare but cymbals/tom fills from a drumkit,I got til week 12 so definitely should book some studio time,Reckon you might have some time free in the next few weeks to maybe help me with drum micing and stuff if I do?,cool. I'll let you know. Otherwise I might just look for some good sample packs,lol,yeah i know trying to avoid. but would be a challenge,jesus,Yeah fair call tbh. If stuff is going missing then they need to do the whole process of elimination,Pretty fucked that people are stealing mics,Super selfish,Oh right. Well if people were stealing them then good call. If they were just migrating from rooms then that was because it was locked in the first place?,between*,Yeah. I think they just take shit and don't put it back cause they think the whole floor is the same studio.,Ms20 for bass, YS100 for stringy bit and Diva for strangs,Had to VST for lush polyphony,I mean YS100 for stabs,Thanks man. I been working on it for a couple of days straight lol,I got pissed at myself for expecting instant gratification from making tracks so I set myself a really shitty challenge to try and make this like lush darkwave ballad but then it spiralled into like a million synths and guitars and two drumracks and fucking vocal tracks up the wazoo,Plus I wrote it for my dad so I kinda wanna get it perfect,He woulda liked the shredzz,SO what are you doing for tomorrow night? I gotta pick up <Name> from childcare and give him dinner and stuff, then my sister is coming round to watch him at like 6:30-7. Apparently Will and <name> will be there soundcheckin with brahs so I'll show a bit later and help with setup and junk. I'm also gunna be keeping a strong eye on time and keeping people moving between sets.,Cool. Sounds like there'll be plenty of hands helping out anyway. I'll get there as early as I can.,PTV is saying it'll take about an hour and 10 from my place so I'll be there probably round 7.45. Maybe I should just uber it,Let me know if you are and we can carpool. Takes like 20 mins to get to your place from mine!,I can help ya load in and junk. Then again ya might want a beer,That might be the best/cheapest idea.,Yeah its not that bad from mine either just PT sucks ass,like 20 mins in car or an hour and 10 on two buses and a tram,FML,Oh well rent is cheap lol,Like 300 a week,We got lucky though,Hasn't gone up in 2 yrs either,which is rare af,then again the place is literally falling apart,and I'm pretty sure there is a birds nest in one of the walls,and baby birds cheep at me while I'm doing the dishes,cheep cheep,Cool what time are you leavibg,Ah yeah I dunno if I can get there that early. Earliest I could get to yours would probs be 7? But you can just head if you need and I'll show up a bit later.,Yeah don't stress about me I'll show up later.,<Name>is sick so can't get <Name>.Sounds like they got enough help with setup so I might get there closer to 8 methinks coz I got to wait for <Name> to get home from class at 7.30. FML,Yeah let her know. I only got her student email so she Probs won't check it. Sometimes I wish I could just plan something and do it without having to organize like a million frigging things,\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d,Haha I know, grabbing an uber so will be about a halfa. How's things?,Do it with an arduino!,Would be aw some for video stuff. Put puredata on it and then program on your Mac and upload it to the pi. Video synthesis?,Like raspberry pi and your BCR and puredata would be a killer combination,Yeah look up the GEM library. Like jitter for puredata,Sig2pix is my fave object,Basically does what the synchronator does,All the visuals I did for that hands video clip I made for vlf are madr in GEM,You need PD extended though,I'll link spam you,   "   "   "yeah, I just view google cache if I need info lol,Good! Working steadily towards something. Got my first gallery show at Kings in Feb, proposal in for First Site and doing this performance art night in october so plenty of stuff happening.,Hey man, ya going into the studio today I see. Me too! I can come in early and help out if ya need.,Cool. I'll let ya know how I'm travelling. Editing a video for class at home so will probably rage quit in a couple of hours,How ya doing? Thinking of heading in nowish,PS is the mic cabinet locked?,cool thanks bud,Fucking hell,Gunna have to steal mics from immersive again,Wanted to set up the royer for vocals,All good the c414 is pretty tasty for vocals. Part of the reason I was coming in is to do a vocal shootout with different mics ;(,C414 is a good all rounder. I was some high end breathiness so I think it'll work,On my way in now, should be in round 5.20 if ya want me to have a objective listen,Hey do you have a PA? Pretty sure we used to have one for savnobs stuff or did I dream that,Thought so. I messaged hi to see if I can borrow,Yeah good. Crunch time so jsut finishing off all my shit for semester. Hows grad show stuff coming along?,Cool let me know if you nerd any help,Haha Freudian slip,Let me know if you need any nerd help,+,accidentally sent that plus,Whens the grad show again?,Cool! Plenty of time,Haha, yeah theres only so much experimentation you can do with it. Get into puredata nd rasperry pi and you'll run out of time pretty quick :),Haha discussion helps,Haha, experimentation is good though?,Its for this MEta performance thing I'm doing OCT 20th,live performing /mixing internal body sounds in a room made to look like a womb,but need PA so I can bring the heartbeat bass,Nah we're taking over some house in Reso which is going to be demolished,I think I invited you? Meta royal parade,Hey youre in advanced studio technologies right? Do you have class this week or can I book 6.1.9,Cool nice I'm booking the studio,Hm. Depends. Couple of hundred for a good used deck wouldn't go amiss. As long as its 3 head it should be okay. Marantz, teac and tascam make really good decks AFAIK,oh and luxman,if you want portable theres a few models of marantz and sony's from the late eighties that are really good quality,I had a c207 for years which I paid 150 for on ebay,marantz/superscope c207,it was awesome,   "Buy these and I'l go halves with you haha,oh wait its just for one,but yeah marantz pmds are the gold standard,yeah for sure but they definitely go for more,nakamichi is like audiophile quality,depends on condition. Even the highest end decks used shitty belts that degrade over the years and can have wear on the heads,yeah its easy enough to do, but finding the right size belt can be hard,its worth buying a more popular deck as there would be more chance of people having parts for it,   "Holy shit they have my old dekc on ebay,FUCK I WANNA BUY IT,pretty bad shape though,if you buy it I've got a broken machine you can have some parts from,its a rock solid machine. Served me well for years. Only broke it coz I was being a dubass and trying to increase the range of the speed control,then again might just be my nostalgia,mayeb I should buy it,you bastard,So many media options,haha yeah I was looking into home surround stuff recently,caught the 5.1 bug,think if I move and get an actual studio space might be a good ivestment to get a good multi output soundcard and some matched monitors + sub,just for shitzolas,I'll save that for the first year of breaking even finiancially with my art practice,so probs 10 years from now,lol,Honours thesis: A protracted study into the fetishisation of musique concrete production techniques in post modern sampling,gotta sample my tapes into my MPC on the holidays,chop and resequence and pitch shift,Yeah running like a dream. Managed to get everything running off a 32gb micro sd,Been transferring my live set over to it the last few weeks,soon it'll be vlf live shows with ms20, mpc, mixer, fx pedals and microphone,pretty much backpack/ptv worthy,Its actually the best. Super tight midi sequencer, got JJOS so multisampled synth/fx sounds. 6 individual outputs and inbuilt fx,Basicallya cumputer without distractions and more music friendly interface,Alternate operating system for the MPC1000. Adds a shitload of functionality,mustilsampling, synthesis, grid edit (paino roll type stuff) audio tracks which timestretch in time with bom,bpm,yeah, you can do wavetable stuff with it,yeah its insane. Still scratching the suraface of what it can do,oh yeah and chopping samples and resequencing them obvs,was a bit of an electronics project but all up and running now,we'll have to jam in the holidays and I'll show ya some stuff,after grad show you will be free,By the way when I was looking for a tape machine last year <Name> told me to ask around at Broadcast Workshop in nth Melb. Maybe you should head over there and ask them if they have anything they have fixed up and want to sell on.,That was for reel to reels though but I think they service high end cassette stuff too,If you plan on going et me know and I'll come with ya. Want to ask too,Defs no rush lol,Officeworks can be pretty good? Otherwise rmit has pretty good printing facilities,Might be worth asking   <name>, he's always getting junk printed,Or melody,Nah just ask him. He's there for long enough that you're not like cutting into his time too much,Hey man, still up in the air but I'll Probs go on round 9.30, it's at 50 Royal parade Reservoir. Pretty close to train station and should be parking on the street too.,Haha, okay then. Seeya/won't see ya there. Should be a pretty cool night.,Fair call,   might be fun for circuit bending,It's an enhancer so it ups the sharpness of the signal, which I I hinkle in a feedback circuit would look really cool,Ooh,Good man, enjoying holidays and working on the VLF album/EP thing. How's your grad show stuff coming along?,coooooo,Yo do you have a large diaphragm condenser I might be able to borrow for a week or so to track guitar at my place? Got one that's good for vox but need something airy for leadz.,Cool, thanks heaps man. Will talk about it tomorrow night! Hows your stuff going?,Shityeah,Nice! Go for it,Haha yes. Just be glad you're not doing third year next year. Feel like I've been doig this whole degree in a state of constant flux,Just gunna get this degree done and try and use resources as much as possible while they are still kind of there. Hence making EP in the studio this summer.,Free booze tonight or do I need cash?,kool thanx. I'll probs be there at like 7.30,Woah this EP is turning into an album,Put all the rough mixes together and it's like 30 minutes,8 so far. Call takes up quite a chunk haha,The closer,What are you up to wednesday? Reckon I can come round and borrow a mic or two?,kooooo,how bout thurs?,yeah I'd come round noon-lunchtime. I'm gunna be in the city all day wednesday at the studio anyways so just let me know what times you might be home and Ill swing by for a bit?,Yeah, unless you can do earlier I can can pop by on the way to the studio,Like 11-11:30? I can come another day,Woah might come another day didn't realize it was gunna be such a scorcher.,I'm in the city now melting,Nah guitar tracking so that'll probably come at the end so no rush,Sorry bit one dimensional at the moment. Reckon I'll have the tracking and arrangement done next week and then on to mixing. I could really use some help at that stage! Maybe if it's not too much trouble I could organize a day at RMIT where we sit down and listen to the mixes and you tell me what you think objectively before I get into the heavy mixing stage. I'd really appreciate some input and I value your opinion on this stuff.,Thanks man. Probably the wek after next. When are you usually free dutring the week?,Hey bud, doing gooood. Xmas was super chill thank fuck. <Name>'s sis just had a baby so been hanging out with them a bit. Finishing up mixes for EP and gettign my shit together for this exhibition in feb. How bout you?,Shit yeah, good pivoting to video stuff. Ya thinking bout your honours stuff? I can send you through a mix if you promise not to listen on macbook speakers har har,What ya reckon you'll do?,cool, so kind of making sound visual and tactile. Did you ever see that alvin lucier piece where he plays percussion with his brainwaves?,Yah yah yah,Pretty interesting stuff,   "for your perusal sir,PS that Canadian tape factory we used for savnobs has an Australian importer now based in Brunswick. Blank tapes for like 2 bucks a piece. Sweet! dupeshop.com.au,Bossos,Shit yeah! Thanks so much. Yeah I've been taking a different approach to mixing everything and I think it's been working a lot better. verb level on that snare is possibly a bit excessive. Might just automate it back a bit. Or maybe add some randomization to it or something or sidechain the buss a little bit to the vocal. Wanted it to be an effect but not too distracting. So good to hear coz I've been getting in my head about the mixes and wasn't sure if anything was working haha,Been using more compression but less aggressively too, and using saturation a lot instead of compression. Kind of want that big kinda new wave sound to the whole EP,Still got a while to go til it's finished but thanks needed some good feedback,Cool babe. Have a good un will talk in the new year,Pretty good. Installing for this show next week so scrambling to get everything done. How bout you?,Yup, next friday at 6,Oh damn. Yeah I'll just double check,I'm sitting fridays after that I think,Nice! I'll be there 12-6 on the following friday,How'd the tote stuff go,?,Hells yeah! Good work man,I'll have to come out and see them one time. Gunna get out more this year I think.,Think that's most people nowadays,I really do though, feeling really isolated and cut off from everything at the moment. Been getting lost in the past a bit too. Not good for a 26 year old to be yearning for simpler times lol,"Oh those were the days",Nah takes two to tango anyway. I'm pretty terrible at upkeeping friendships anyway so don't worry bout it. Just realising how different my life is now to what it was like 4 years ago and kind of mourning the losses. It always happens when I'm taking a new direction or some big change happens I think.,Plus I'm making this work which is based on shit that happened in like 2011, which isn't helping lol,Kind of hard when nostalgia is research,I think stuff just kind of slows down, people start doing things with their lives and become distracted/consumed, and the sort of situational friendships you made over that time get eroded slowly til you're left with a few core people. You get into new situations but it is with less malleable people, they are more defined so harder to access and your interactions are less free. I'm pretty sure I read somewhere most people in their thirties have like 2 or 3 close friends and a whole shitload of acquaintances so a fairly natural process.,Its just the natural flow of things, doesn't really stop it being hard though.,Yeah, its a video and sound piece where my voice is delayed so that my speech is totally fucked,and I got an interactive component where you can try it out youself,its pretty intense,Kind of good call not coming to the opening, would be the worst time to actualy see the works lol,Ah no bigs, got a few people coming so not gunna be on me own haha. <name> and michael graeves might show up which would be awesome, and some industry folks coz we been sending our press releases and jazz. I'm just happy I've done the work and its ready and I've learnt a shitload about being an artist putting this show together,That was my fear haha,Haha. Yeah went really well. Plenty of good feedback and lots of people interacting with my work. Good turn out too! Come by next Friday I'll be sitting 12-6 if ya wanna see it.,Nice juan. Please do I' gunna be bored af,lol,Yeah pretty good. Was talking to <Name> davis last night about doing some shows soon. I got a month before uni starts so might just book in a ep launch for april or something and then be forced to get my shit together,but yeah I dunno, just gunna take a week off I think after putting this show together. Was so fuckin intense haha,what are you up to at the moment?,sounds good man. I just wanna chill for a bit before uni starts. Do some house shit and catch up with people and stuff I think. Probably get burnt out if I keep doing stuff all the time lol,haha thanks man. Impressive how I've managed not to have a mental breakdown too,this was hell. two of the four artists were super flaky and I had to literally guilt trip them into doing most of the admin stuff for the exhibtion,gunna be real careful abotu who I do a group show with next time,its like booking gigs but even more is at stake haha,Nar, was weird timing for grants with the show in Feb. Just funded it myself,Yup. Borrowed from art loans,Yup. It's like an unofficial service though so wouldn't rely on it,You going to j boys thing?,Sik see u there,check out my new website www.liamfpower.comdesigned from the ground up in HTML/CSS/Javascript. Still a WIP but like, I know kind of how to do web design now lol,Oh yeah I'm fixing that today","" "Hey Gill, how'd ya pull up after last night? Thanks for putting up with my existential whining haha.,Ooh yeah thanks Gill! definitely a bit left over today too. Will probably take you up on that offer actually!,I have a feeling we  met multiple times before today but I am incomprehensibly bad at rememb<Name>g faces and names so sorry. Was nice to meet you properly under strange circumstances though! My retinas thank you,Hey bud this might sound weird but do you know where I could find some EEG tabs for an art project I'm working on? Have managed to record almost every body sound except brain and muscle activity,Hell yeah thanks so much! Yeah this piece is definitely very... icky in a weirdly comforting way. Essentially surround sound body noises played real loud to recreate the experience of being in the womb. But as an adult,<Name> donated some intense burps,Yep. I think I just need 3 but they tend to come in packs of disposables,I'll send a picture just a sec","" "Something like these? Exceot for neonatal Probs obvs. I think they just have packs of them in hospitals hanging round for when they monitor heart rates and stuff,*Probes,Okay that makes sense. So the adhesive itself isn't conductive?,Ooh yeah I forgot bowen would totally be onto this stuff,Dang that might be useful,Alright cool I'll look into it. Not like the data needs to be super accurate as it's just being judged relative to other inaccurate data. Was just checking if there was an easier way to access this stuff. Know my way round electronics but trying to understand the practicalities of what I can get with a DIY setup before I embark on a possible wild goose chase if that makes sense.,Oooh dang I can build that. Thanks for the lead,Can't make it tonight I don't think, hope you have a smashing night, and I hope the right type of smashing goes on at your place, that of dignity and inhibition. And not the wrong kind, that of wine glasses and dry walls. Liam,Choors, might be able to shake it. Many happy returns regardless.,one day at a time bro, one day at a time,oh yeah, 6 broken ribs,was he readin the funnies?,nah I'm doing alright, fucking painful but if I take it easy I'm alright,marry xmas, thanks antonia,MARRY?,merry,merri xmas,,Hey Paul, Yeah yeah yeah <email> mate,Haha, no stress.,Hey so looks like ya got the name of my act wrong in the email to the booker, sposed to be "VLF". Can send through an email if need be.,Ha, no worries man, probably got ya hands full with booking tour.,Oh geez, I feel ya. Slamming out essay today,Haha, no worries, I've been there before. It's <name> McCarthy as far as I know.,Hey bud, how ya doing? How'd that Bar Open gig go on thursday? Been listening to No Nothing stuff and I'm super into it, I reckon we should have a synth jam some time??,That would be cool, he's alright at the bass I guess.,What kinda stuff are ya influenced bya t the moment?,Oh yeah! Been listening to that scatology album a bit. I'm all over the Fad Gadget and Snowy red at the moment. Will have to check out those other guyz,Hey man! Yeah me too, uni is pretty craze this week. Let's do it though! What days might be good?,Hm. I'm pretty stacked too, I can see bout Sunday, might have to play it by ear a bit to see when I gotta be home with me babby. Otherwise we can work out a weeknight. I'm at RMIT so can jam in the studios there after hours no probs.,Me too I reckon. Can't rush greatness so I'll hit ya up next week to organise.,Hey man, yes yes yes. Super down. I am free thursday night probably or the weekend during the day. I can book the studio at uni as well if need be. Been a bit crazy with uni so neglecting the music side of things a bit gaddamnit.,Ooh shit just checked with the wife and I'm on toddler duty thursdaynight as shes got work. Can do friday? Or next week for sure coz I'm on holidays,Nothing set in stone, my wife works nights and gets her roster on friday so I should know by then. Probaby a monday or wednesday night I could do.,sorry! my partners working monday tuesday wednesday. I can do thursday or friday night if you want? Sorry, got a kid and hard to find time atm. :(,Sweet, i can do Thursday night for sure. Wanna jam at RMIT studios? Can book the studio.,Studio studio,Don't worry I shamefully listen to Gold FM for "research" too. Cool I'll book us in. What gear ya thinking of Brangin?,Cool, should work alright. I'm moving a bit to hardware but volca sample, little modular monosynth synced from from Ableton usually. Vox thru delay & looper. Should gel pretty well.,Yep. Swanston st. Can meet ya someplace and take ya down.,cool beans, I booked the studio from 7-12 so no stress about time. I'll probably get there round 7? and do some setup,sweet ass sweet,PS. Thereas a minimoog voyager and a shitty usb midi keyboard in the studio we can use if ya wanna travel light.,also my number is <number>, give me a buzz when you are on your way in and ill let ya know where to go,oh wait I'm gunna use the shitty usb midi keyboard I think,Benefits of playing solo right? Cool, see ya later.,Yeah let's get a six pack or something. Should Ben fine as long a son we don't spill it all over the place like a bunch of jerkz.,Wow typos,I'm a beer guy myself. Anything non CUB I'm happy with. I'm at Melbourne centraaaal. will Lo head into the studio studio and start setting some crap up,   ya go bud. Did a tiny bit of a mix on it but haven't had a good ol' proper listen yet. Definitely high points, Good hangs too, will see ya whn im back from Japon, round the start of december,sounds good, down for next time. Was thinking we should ramp it up in tempo and make some synthpunk/screamers type stuff. Got a few songs I can bring to the table too.,I'm LiamLook at me!,Well. I feel like a bit of a dick!,good, just chilli in and shit, school AHHebay huh? buy a sitar!,Hey Louis, pretty sure we might have met before round the traps, but anyways I'm the lead singer of <name>, and we're always looking to play gigs if ya have some bastard cancel on you or if have a slot ya needa fill. We just blasted our EP off into the stratosphere if ya wanna take a listen. \   "Hell yeah, we can play that for sure. Any idea on the lineup?,Sweet ass sweet. Thanks for getting back to me. Should be a good one.,Hey bud, how's it going! Reel to reel is working out super awesome. Just wonderingif <name> are into playing a gig with my solo stuff and possibly InfraGhosts sometime soon?,Hey man, yeah! Finished up my final assignment a week or so ago using it it. Thanks heaps for the loan. Could probably organize to drop it off on the weekend sometime?,Yeah yeah, think I'm gunna have to pull the trigger and get my own again. Pretty addicted to the whole tape editing/looping workflow. Whereabouts are ya? In preston or something?,cool cool, hopefully I can drop it off over the weekend or early next week if that suits,nw thanks for the loan. Got me back into the tape zone,Holy fuck!,I totally forgot man,So sorry,Yeah I'll get it to ya asapas,When might be good next week for me to drop it off?,Okay cool we can do Tuesday probs. I'll check with <Name>,Yeah cool Tuesday arvo after <Name> wakes up from his nap, like 2ish. Putting it in me calendar.,I'll keep ya in the loop man,Yup, I can probably convince <Name> to drop it off on the weekend. But hard coz I don't drive but can grab a bus over?,That would be totally fine. Anytime is good. Thanks bud,Awesome see ya then,Hey Louis Al is dropping round to pick up the reel to reel in an hour or so. All good but for the life of me I can't find the other tape end cap, as in the cap that keeps the tape on when the player is vertical. Im really sorry! I'm gunna have another scour but if not I will buy you a replacement online  and get it shipped to your place if need be.,Yeah they are slippery bastards still got one! Gunna take a good old look tonight once it cools down a bit. Al apparently headed to the beach today instead but said he'd drop by in a couple of days to pick her up BTW.,The saga of the tape machine is almost over!,Yep no problem I'll be home tomorrow for sure!,Dang!,,Hey bud, yar pretty good i spose, hows things?,Ha, yeah been hiding under a rock mainly waiting for the global firestorm to pass. Not many concretes yet this year, been a bit of an indecisive bastard mainly. I'm doing sound and vision, experimental practice and sound cultures? Was wonderingif I'd see ya round the traps? Howd that whole pyramid thing go?,Yeah sound cultures is pretty good. I did audio tech  last year, <name> <name> ranting at us about what a speaker is for weeks on end. Now I've upgraded to second year where he rants about the realities of the Art world for weeks on end. You working on anything cool at the moment?,Haha, that's his way of filt<Name>g g out the hipsters,Sound piece ey?,Oh yeah, I remember that one,Like, disregard the last sixty years of culture and make this concrete piece,Meeeeow,Oh man, if you hate it I'd love to hear it,I hate absolutely everything I do, so gotta even the score,Could send you mind from last year but pretty sure I deleted it in an intense period of self loathing,Oh yeah, fairly anxiety inducing. I've just had three straight weeks of people awkwardly trudging through PowerPoints and mumbling vague ideas about art. Proposal season,I find dissociation and detachment helps preserve the self,Oh I meant other people doing presentations to the class.,bad-bad or good-bad?,thats good... or bad,cats?,yeah the left channel is clipping!,you just gotta turn the volume down somewhere,well it depends, you can either turn the volume of the one thing that is making it go into the red, or turn everything down so it never goes red,oh yeah, just click the red bit, and itll go away and let you see where it came up,Now I'm curious. Pretty sure last year as long as you didn't clip and did some cutting and fading he was happy.,haha yeah public art = transitory experience. kinda like that it has disappeared forever now,Might find a place for it in a festival a few years from now I reckon. Good proof of concept. Hows your work going?,Yeah totally, would be more self sufficient that way,Not too bad, usual existential crises notwithstanding think I'll be able to mash it some sort of executions this semester,Mash out,Just finishing up my first video art work in the Freight next couple of days,Nah, was gunna ask about that,Liamfpower@gmail.com,Autocorrect rules,I'm almost at uploading stage with this video thing, I'll let ya know when I get something up,Not super glorious though,Haha, glorious,SOund art wise or music wise?,Ooh ahh, probably stuff you've heard of,always bernard parmegiani, joyce haines (spectral), Keiji Haino, who I saw live in Japan recently, his band Fushitsusha and heaps of japanese experimental stuff from the 70s/80s. Les Rallizes denudes are wild if you haven't heard them before. Also been getting into early 80s Belgian goth type junk, Neon Judgement, Snowy Red etc. Not sure if you'd like any of it. Can link though,how bout you?,Oh and SPK, Auto Da Fe,I already did itKeiji Haino - \   Rallies Denudes\   Dangeurueses\   Red\   Judgement\   Auto Da fe\   "dangerous question to ask a sound artist,haha,Jandek is boss, so forlorn.,Any particular albums you'd recommend? He has so much stuff, I guess I've heard songs,Cool, I'll check them out,Yeah he was pretty prolific right,Expanding practice spatial and sonic environments, performance and live art and immersive environments,what a handful,boss, yeah I thought it seemed up your alley,I'm excited to do some performance,haven't played many gigs this year, so hopefully I'll be able to get back in the game,haha, yeah but I want something more confrontational I think next time,less passsive,I have a lot of angst which needs an outlet,or else I will literally explode,literally and figuratively,lol,Sublimating can be healthy as long as it isn't obsessive I reckon. I mean, if I want channelling these feelings into my art who knows where the fuck they'd crop up.,In line at the grocery store or in some sort of boxed wine addiction most likely,What kind of stuff have you been doing?,coooii,yeah its super easy to hide behind sound I think,I've been wanting to make some sort confrontational type performance piece, maybe we could collaborate next sesmter,sweet, I've been thinking about this disconnection between audience and spectacle. Like the weird expectations that keep people in their roles. It'd be cool to try and play around with those boundaries a bit. I reckon it'd be fairy hard with modern audiences though. I feel like something subtle and insidious would work pretty well, ltrying to incite a general feeling of apathy, detachment or malaise from an audience might be easier than fear or something.,rambles,yeah, like the carrot and the stick type of approach,people switch off fairly quickly if they feel like they are deliberately being made to feel uncomfortable I think, could be hard to do,maybe you just nailed it? Plus this is melbourne, the only people that go to shows are friends of the people playing shows,and they only go so that those people will come their shows,ha,okay cool, maybe we could get coffee or something one day?,lemme know when ya fre,cooloes, good luck with it,   ya go, still needs an edit I think but this is that video piece I was telling ya about,Haha thanks bud,Hell yeah. I'm Sposed to be presenting it with projector and proper speakers. Definitely wanted to test it out. Hopefully more immerse in a darkened space,Okay cool I should be there n Monday and Wednesday if you are round then?,Cool I'll let you know but I gotta pick up me boy from daycare at 530 so might be pushing it. I can get us into the multipurpose room in building 9 which has a projector and decent speaks and gets real dark. That's where rim presenting anyway so might be good to establish it out there. Will check out ya piece when I get home!,I was just gunna show up and see if it was free, can't book it as far as I know but I have been in there eon Monday afternoons and i don't think anyone is using it. Whenever is good for you I spose. I'll be fuckin round campus most of the time day I reckon,PS your composition is super cool. Love the chain clanking type sounds.,Also kind of funny towards the end in a kind of unhinged way,Very gestural and performative too,Nah I'm still at home about to head in. What are you up to today?,Pretty sure it's not on today as far as I know. Gunna do some field recording/mixing today methinks,Yep,Whups.oh well didn't miss much by the sound of it,Cool I might head in a little later but I'll see how I go with times. Otherwise maybe catch up later in the week?,Hey bud I'm banging round campus today if ya wanna catch up.,Yar har har, whereabouts are you?,Cool beans, building 37?,Alright I'll be there in a bit,What part are ya in?,Went in and asked those dudes if I could use the room and they were like "na mate, we got a class" "what class" "fuckin, DJ class",PS thinking about putting together a group show with a theme around degradation if you are into it let me know,Me,   <name> Curtis doing honours, possibly <name>. I dunno. Too many white dudes,yar,okie doke,I just finished my final composition for the semester,thank the benevolent earth mother,hows your work going?,Heyy, pretty gooood, hows ya holidays going?,Yeah pretty good, catching up on some music stuff and hanging with me boy,Sounds good to me, what day?,I can do monday or thursday,righteo lesdoit, i got some stuff on in the morning but will get in round midday?,okay cool will be good to see ya,Heyo, I might be able to to, just gotta see what I'm up to?,Hey sorry Thursday ain't working for me unfortunately, might have to do next week?,Goooood, yeah thinking I might have Wednesday free so far, how bout you?,Might be able to squeeze a thursday thing in, round lunchtime?,Cool, alright ill put ya in my calendar,Well I'm in Coburg so Brunswick or city is good,Probs hang in the city, might be easiest? I'll let ya know my movements,Yeah cool I'll probably get in round 11?,You betcha, wherebouts? Tulk or something?,Cool, talk tomorrow then,Might be a little bit late into the city this morning, like 11.30?,Sweet, I'll see you then,Heyo on my bike and had to make a massive detour cox of roadworks. About 15 mins away.,Alrighty,Cool be there in 5,Nurries, my tram is ever so slow,You sitting outside or inside?,I'll be one minute probably,Yeah I know! first day back fo rme. Wonder what we got in store,meh, first week is a writeoff. I usually jsut check my hair in my phone camera ost of the class anyway,lol jk look up cool philolpshy memes,philosophy,I am sitting at the moment,riveting stuff,ehehe,front page news,but yeah, should be good. I'm still a bit sick from the weekend so hopefully don't fall asleep/die in the middle of class.,Hey I had to split early to pick up <Name> from daycare, what did we end up getting for the homework assignment?,No worries I emailed MG so up to speed. Seeya tomorrow :),Totally, her approach to theory is refreshing,You got an idea for next week?,Cool beanz. Interested to see what the class coems up with.,2 minutes isnt a lot of time to develop a performance. I think I'll just do a reading,I got an idea. Problem is its time variable based upon how anxious I am feeling hehe,I spose if there is anywhere for me to move to more personal stuff it would be this class,Smile emoji overload,Embrace it,How the tables have turned,,Thats what michael sent me?,Dang, well let me know if you find out,Havent heard of him soz,Sure do, rehearsing this week. How bout you?,Nice, good that you're being organized,Biggest obstacle to overcome with performance is yourself I think,I'm doing a minimalist work, kind of trying to strip back the layers and get to the personal content this semester. Questioning my practice in front of an audience kind of thing,We'll see how it goes. Ironically pretty safe to be exploring vulnerability in front of an audience as you can't really fuck up,Womblike,Nah, not today sorry,How's it going? Ready for tomorrow?,As ready as you can be I spose,That'd help! Saw you were doing something on Facebook?,Cool, good lick with it,Luck,Hey bud, what are you up to on monday? Feel like coming and helping me do some filming for my next performance piece? Will owe you a favour.,Oh yeah, far call. Forgot about that. It's alright I got my friend who lives round the corner to agree to help out.,Cajoled him real good,Nah don't worry about it. Was just seeing if you were free.,What are you doing for your wider performance?,Or wanna keep the mystery going?,Hehe,Do not fix it if it ain't broken,Woah autocorrect made me sound Russian,Do not fix if it is not in a state of breaking,Ooahah sorry had to talk to MG in the break. Pissed I didn't get to see your work. Show it to me next week!,Ohharr good idea,was thinking about putting something in for it. Probably whatver I submit for performance and live art,Cool, yeah split gallery costs and take over the whole space,We'd have to get out asses in gear though, due september 3rd,boss. I'll write up a little thing for my piece. Who else were you thinking?,Lesdoit. You in wednesday?,Yeah sounds good, I got to perform for class but heading in round 11.,I'm on me way in now. Probably get to campus round 11.30. should I just come to your studio?,Cool see ya soon matey,Kool,Kind of related to your piece you were talking about today? Might be worth it to go see this after we get the proposal in.,Where is it? Caulfield or Clayton?,I oh Caulfield,Did my first undergrad there,Journalism and philosophy. Real practical,Ancient history,Narr second,Just wrote my reflection on the tram home. Just a quick edit then done thank fuck,Written so many of these by now but forget how to every time,Ooh yeah definitely spend more time reflecting on our failures than making work,Feeling good about his <place> proposal,I'm free monday wednesday thursday for a couple of hours. If we plan now can fit other work around it.,Sounds good. Needs to be done by Sunday week so we should definitely do some writing those days. Feel free to reach out to friends/artists so we can lock in artists and get proposal info and CV/Bios before proposal date. I'll ask a few friends if they're interested too.,Yeah sounds gooooooood,   arts grants for RMIT students? Maybe we could spin this to our cause,Narr,I think you mighta invited me to something at the start of the year?,Hm, I dunno. Think its definitely a good idea to promote the exhibition/get people along to the opening and junk. But I don't feel super great about the show being.. absorbed into something else, especially if I didn't see the first one? We want a sense of cohesion but also singularity among the works I think.I guess I feel like if I am gunna be part of something I wanna know more about objectives and motivations and whatnot.,Lets work on the proposal and talk Thursday about it in person. Facebook sucks at conveying tone,Hey bud, what ya wanna do tomorrow? I got a meeting at 2 in brunswicki, maybe we could meet up on Sydney rd or something?,cool, talk then,I hear ya bud, take it easy,How ya doin?,Not too baddd, what ya up to today?,Cool, I'm working on documentation for proposal so let me know when you're close by and I'll jump on my steed. Maybe we should go to RMTI brunswick library?,Yeah I was thinking we could go to Brunswick campus RMIT?,For library resources etc,can print stuff,Yeah that's fine by me bud. I did some work on it last night so we still got plenty of time.,Namewise I'm brainstoriming now. CV is pretty much done, but its pretty unimpressive. I'm listing my areas of interest at Uni because I don't have much exhibited work.,How bout Disconnect,Yeah need soemthing more neutral,Transmission?,Disclosure?,Interface,I like interface actually, dual technological and human meaning,Like two machines interfacing,Communicating data between one another,Let's pencil that one in for now,I'm away from comp for the next hour or two but will take a look when I get home \ude09,Goddammit you got me using emojis now too,\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d\ude2d,Bastards,Ooh,What for? An exhibition or a performance?,Dang, yeah we should go for it and if we don't get <place>/have a choice we should go with it. Would wanna see the space first though,Totally, just needed this <place> proposal to give everyone a deadline. Finding someone to pay emerging artists this late in the year will be a challenge I think, but we could definitely apply for funding or go for a cheaper space.,variations on a theme. All we need is louis's cv and contact details and then we are ready to send it off I think.,No worries bud, from each according to their ability, to each according to their need or some such slogan.,Kind of? Always been a bit ambivalent about the whole father's day institution. Think mothers day is much more deserved. Plus its my first one without having lunch with my dad.,Sorry if oversharing,Only easier from here. Plus I was so emotionally numb I could write objectively about my work. What a plus.,October last year,Thanks bud. :),I know! Once we get his statement I'm happy to zip everything up and send it off. Filling out the proposal form now.,whups sorry they,Still got an hour or so. Woke up this morning and was like "I bet we send it off at 11:58",Yeah, just a few sentences, even on what they will use for the exhibition, video and sound or just sound? I can probably write a few sentences based on that and their statement just need their medium,Cool, thanks xx,ps is there a title and date for those images that you uploaded? Putting together documentation now.,oh geez now I'm getting anxious,Nah, just for consistency.,not important at all,okay cool, I have everything else ready, will just copy and paste whatever they say then shoot it away to <place>. Hopefully no technical issues,Yep thank the sweet earth mother,OMFG the form doesn't let me copy and paste so I have to type the proposal out. This is literally like a really boring thriller movie,If we get funding I am paying myself an admin fee,Okay cool, just uploading the proposal now. About to hit send.,Double checked everything,SENT,with five minutes to spare,Fuck yeah,I know Geez. So happy we got it in. Should be a good show. Night sweetie,Yo I'm skipping class today, got heaps of work to do. Maybe we can catch up later in the week?,Nice! What are you working on?,Ooo,Wait he just gave you a house?,Haha okay,Cool, let me know where it is and I'll swing by,That might be possible. Are you doing performances?,Badass, i wanna see it.,Oh man that place is like peak reservoir,Interior is so good,That patio though,I'd totally live there,Will do. Just gotta decide what to do. I'll let ya know tonight?,I got a surround work, I might have shown you. That body sounds one. Maybe I could figure out a sound setup in one of the rooms or a closet or something and make it really claustrophobic,Yeah go for it I can scrape something together,Cool, invited some friends. Got a pretty good idea of what I'm going to do as well. Lets have a chat wednesday?,yo my home email is <email> if ya need,Yeah that sounds great, I'm just presenting documentation so no setup needed. What time were you thinking?,Cool beanolos. Lemme know and I'll come in a bit early,Yah, or take an extended break lol,I'll let you know what time I get in then bud. Got some junk to do at home and not sure how long it'll take,Heyo, pretty good. Not my strong point at all. My friend <name> just did that exhibition at Kings which was a 24 hour live stream from a Webcam to the gallery so I'd ask him/I can ask him if you want. From what he told me it was pretty hard to set up a rock solid system,No worries I'll message him now,Don't think that would be that hard you Probs need a dedicated Webcam or something and a computer squirreled away somewhere where people can't screw with it. Also a wired internet connection so that it doesn't drop out?,Yeah good idea. Hang a Webcam on the wall with one of those USB extender cable things and pipe it into a cupboard through a hole to a laptop/computer uploading to YouTube,Same principle though. Dunno if you'd be able to stream it at super high quality but yeah just jam a tripod somewhere with a mic on top and feed to comp,Or yeah get some dude to run around with a phone or something,Selfie stick and iPhone 6,Hey matey. I'm doing some recording in the studio tonight but I've been working on some stuff and would love to chat. Anytime tomorrow good for you?,Yeah just ring me in the morning I'd easier,Late morning haha,<Name>'s with the grandparents for the weekend so first sleep in in months tomorrow hehe,That might be better,Okay,Actually I'll just call you now.,kool,Yo where you planning on fabric buying tomorrow? I can probably come meet ya round lunchtime :),Turns out my ambitions for a sleep in were ill founded. Woke up at 7 anyways fark.,how early were you thinking,Fair call budolo,I can probs do that, jsut workin from home today,lets get some food or something,Yeah should be all good bb,GEHTIGEZ,Where ya wanna meet?,Sik gunna get me a cheese pue,Cool I'll head off then :),Be there in 10ish,Good timing,Here ya goAccount Name: Liam PowerBSB: 303 092Acc #: 5893348,I'm just hanging out the front having a fugue,No worries bud. Good hustle,Hey if I bring the camera do you reckon you could document my performance next week?,Maybe a movie might be the best,Definitely!,Nah I have one which does video,DSLR,Oh woops,lemme recheck,Name Liam PowerBSB: 303-092 Account Number: 5893348,Oh yeah you put in 303093 as the BSB,in the pic you sent,no worries bud. Hope you smashes some camomiles when ya got home,Hey nah at home today, what's up?,Yeah, might take a while to upload though,Yeah cool I'll take a couple of pics,Yeah that's a good idea. I'll bring a usb or something,Don't mention it bud. Sound is pretty horrifc cause of the reverb in the life room. Plus it probably needs image stabilization or something.,Yeah no worries, just copying stuff over from the camera,   "Here ya go, uploading the now with my shit internet but you should be able to download these pics,Nice pics btw. Might want to edit that post you made on the page and just say "installlation and performance by Liam Power" as I don't think I'll be doing multichannel,Maybe "An experimental installation and performance which explores the body as a source of sound.,Here's my biop Liam Power is a multidisciplinary artist and experimental musician based in Melbourne, Australia. He is interested in systems and processes, especially when they break. His works have explored themes of degradation, tolerance, destruction and the limits of noise.,Trying to guilt the others with my punctuality, classic play,If I've learnt anything about our repressed post-christian/catholic culture, its that guilt and shame are incredibly effective subconscious motivators in a group environment,Yeah I'll just get the image without the text,alright cool uplaoded 2 versions so you can pick whatever one works better,How are things going for Friday?,Haha,Yeah good. Everything is sorted on my end. Picked up the PA yesterday and rehearsing tomorrow,Yeah I think it's 120 watts per channel,So 240,I'll go take a look,In total? I that's hard to tell really. Mixer, guitar pedals, mpc and synthesizer plus power and pedals. Those are negligible compared to the PA. I'll try and scratch up some details for you,Okay cool, a lot of the equipment is measured in terms of amps though so had to do some calculations. Or milli amps. My mixer and mpc are 20 watts each, guitar pedals are 10w, synth is 10w too. And then 240w for the PA makes it about 300w,How's the power situation looking?,Like one power point? I've got an error ndustrial surge protected one so I'll bring that,One power point is like 2400 watts in a regular house I think,No Probs,Hey I'm sorry I couldn't make it last night. Having a bit of a family crisis at the moment. Are you going to be at the house this afternoon? I've gotta go hand in my final assessment for Expanding Practice then I'm all yours.,Hmm okay. What time do you think you'll be back/can I get into the place without you? Key under the doormat perhaps?,Right. Can I give you a call?,Haha will call afters,Gyratin',What a night, everything turned out great. Pretty high standard of work. Think a few people woulda left pond<Name>g. Great job on everything again. Xx,Not too bad budolo, up in canverra for the week visiting family. What's up with you?,Cool, performing next week eh? Interesting. Yeah trying to slow down and give myself a rest before launching into summer projects. Working on an EP and playing more shows on the reg and honing my performance practice in general are top of my list for the next month or so. Also making a big ol calendar of grants and important dates and junk for next year and do a bit of professional development stuff.,You might be experiencing that thing where after a whole bunch of stress and anxiety peaks your immune system takes a massive downturn. My partner got sick this week too after her thesis. At least you can take it a easy a bit? Self care is super important,Looks ace,Great job bud,We should get coffee or something now we're on holidays,Ya going to the Grad show tonight?,Cool might see ya there,Nar on me way,Yayaa I'll be in building 2 I think,Yes ma'am,How ya doing matey?,Not too bad. Yesterday was stressful but I reckon we will work it out somehow. Looking forward to an unbroken discussion tomorrow haha,It's funny that we are making this show about technology and communication and we are having so much trouble with communicating,Yeah that must be pretty shit,I always struggle in these communal group decision making processes where there isnt really anyone leading or taking responsibility for stuff. Feels like a group project at uni haha,The ruse is working thank fuck,When are you going to back in Melbs,Sik kk. Assume you'll be working as much as you can in the next couple of weeks? Maybe we can have a catch up and brainstorm ideas for your work? I wanna help if I can and would like to bounce some ideas off you as well,You'll find a way,Don't know how much right they have to get Pissed at us right now,You couldn't find someone else to collaborate on the same/similar thing with?,Plus you've probably already got a bunch of half developed works sitting round that you'd be able to shoehorn into something.,Don't worry about the gallery and matching the proposal I reckon. Group show description can just mention some central themes and we can work around that.,I'm sure artists change their works all the time. You propose something and it doesn't pan out like you thought. It's part of the creative process,Where do you think the stereotype of flaky artists comes from,No smoke without fire har har,Kool later,I've been on real-time research which are pretty good,Or neuro insight- they monitor your brainwaves whioe you watch TV. I live it but can be a little creepy,Love,You gotta go in and sit in a chair and they put a headset on ya,I like it coz you don't have to talk to anyone ya just walk in inhale some stale barbecue shapes then zone out in front of some ads with a hat on,I signed up in their website somewhere,Oh yeah it's on the contact page in their site down the bottom,Good for some extra $$$ I gotta find some place to hire some screens from,Ooh yeah will send off some emails. I was thinking I could do that,Cool, thanks for the info! I'll email some peeps.,Hey bud, not too bad. How bout you?,Pretty chill thank fuck.,You?,Yep, if you can hold on til tomorrow I'll have the details all sorted. I'm doing the same har har.,Oohargh will check it oot thansk luv,How's the event stuff going?,Great! You can just use "Liam Power will explore the causal relationship between thought, speech and memory in The Bridge. " btw,Yeah Lou seems pretty distracted lately by the sound of it,Familial obligations can be pretty all consuming,Gotta be a good juggler,Yeah, less structure,Hey good work on FB event. I'm gunna email the link through to <place>. Also where can I find your bio?,That's fine bud, hope your doing alright. Get back to me when you can.,When it rains it pours,It's all relative,Loaded = able to feed self and maybe buy a coffee,Woah slow down,Will need to get an accountant for all them outgoings,#millennialgoals,Pretty good. Got all my install sorted out, just fucking around editing a bit for the next few weeks. Manageable level of stress haha,PS just need couple of lines for a bio then I can send off the Press release and Kings info so they can update their website and stuff.,Awesome thanks,No worries I'll have a gander,I reckon you could change the first sentence to <Name> Kokkinos' work focuses on making imagined spaces tangible and immersive. Had to look up poiesis har har.,Haha, up to you,Nice. I'll send it off tonight,hey <Name> what website/page do you want me to give <place> for promotional stuff? Link to pythoness?,Haha already did. Had to get it in by sunday. Hows it going?,No worries figured as much. That's good to hear,Yeah me too! got a couple more things to do but almost there thank farkkk. I was just thinking last night how much I've learnt just putting on this show, pretty crazy what stress will do to your development ha ha.,Nice to take a step back sometimes and reflect on all the stuff that you've done rather than all the stuff left to do.,haha, yeah totally. I'm feeling pretty good about hwo eveything has turned out though. Think it'll be a really interesting show.,Made this tonight for some reason\   "haha why not,I'm learning how to code web pages and shite,as a daisy,also made this for my bridge works. Burroughs cut up machine on a 3d plane for text\   "whups I mean this one\   "was gunna release it on th eopening night for the cats that can't make it,Upload the wavs and send them through. I'll be able to fix em in like an hour or two.,Or render out audio only and send me the files,yeah edit first and then send it to me,I aint doing 2 hours,lol,did you record any room tone btw?,like just blank silence?,from the room you were taking video in,oh dang, taht can be really helpful sometimes in making it soudn more natural.,basically you get rid of the room tone from the original signal til it sounds kind of alien and noiseless and then add in a looped ambience underneath to give it cohesion,thats what they do on star warz,I know coz glucas is my uncle,yeah yeah, also long as you're not prattling on the whole time,for future ref always record like a minute or so of 'silence' before you start shooting. Really helps with audio mizing and stuff.,mxing,can you render out a sample, like 30 seconds and I kind of advise you,like just set in out on a bit and go to file export > audio,poor bastard,I can help you out if need be. Plus don't be afraid to rerecord some stuff if its just voice over stuff,I mean if worst comes to worst you can rerecord dialogue over the top of the video and then mix it with the room sound looped,happens to the best of us,jsut die it and ignore the buzz then fix it after if you want or send it to me. I'll have some time tomorrow to help out :),*edit,hey don't worry about it. We're a team at least til the opening then I will abandon you,you're on your own after that,gotta look after number one,thanks, I'm jsut kidn of learning hwo to do stuff on the world wide web,it seems to be catching on this whole internet thing,all the kids are talking about it,except all those science fiction authors from the 50s,I dunno, theres a bunch of <name> bradbury stories where he predicted that there would be an information network which would connect us all but ultimately leave us feeling more isolated and alone,holys hit mark twain did    "anyway yeah noone really predicted the specific efffects it would have on our lives,Oh yeah, first come best served I think. What day/s did you want to sit?,I dunno, one or two. Its how many days you want to at this point I think.,Yeah, that makes sense,maybe message lou and ask,did you send through the final payment for <place>?? I need $150 from you x,awesome thanks babe,Bonza,the commonwealth one, I'll grab the details,06 2948\t1841 8557,do you have that one?,grea thanks,okay cool listening now,hmm.. pretty noticable to me but I'm a pretty critical listener. I'll see if I can clean up the sample and will reupload and show you what it sounds like denoised,phoo its pretty intense. What were you recording with?,yeah I mean it IS possible to clean it up a bit, make the noise a bit less noticeable, but the more cleaned up the more artificial it will sound. If you edit everything together visually you could probably do a voice over and then mix it with the original signal. If it were me I would rerecord the dialogue in a quiet room. You could even do it with your Macbook internal microphone or a voice recorder app on your phone at a quiet time and it would come out pretty decent I think.,if you want to go down that route heres a good tutorial for premiere\   "yeah fair call. technical problems can be sp defeating sometimes,so,try and get all the non vieo aspects installed first and ready and then take some time on thursday and friday to finish off the video?,*video,I dunno what your schedule is like so hard to give advice lol,do you want my honest opinion? I think you need to redo the audio. Its not going to be as hard as you think and will help a lot with the work I think. Its totally up to you but I think it'll work a lot better if you can re record the dialogue.,Yeah I gotta find me phoen though haha gimme 5 mins,kk,Yo grammar on the interface page is kinda janked. Did you try and change my bio to the third person?,just the last bit. Maybe change it toFrom beginnings in pure sound work, Power has moved towards video, performance, and installation. His work currently experiments with the boundaries and weaknesses of systems. These systems could be tape machines, computer algorithms, or their own brain.,How'd today go lovey,Ugh kinda,It won't fall off the wall,Just taking a break, apparently walked 12k today,Yeah will do tomorrow,Ugh, was a pretty shit day for me.,Tomorrow will be better,Oh geez,Yup, I might have to come in friday morning haha,will see how I go,Was good. Bit hungover today haha. Went and got waffles and shakes and she loved it.  Watching queer eye tonight too. How bout you?,Oh yeah new all stars,Haha cute,You feeling good about the show? I reckon it went pretty well,If there is a flat surface people will but beers on it,Yeah totally, got good feedback,People love interacting with the works.,From now on all my artworks will be apps,Hey whats up?If you are stil living across the road we shoud totaly hang put sometime, maybe we could jam with our various instruments and musical tastes, itll be a total mishmash. Yours in sickness and in HealthLiam Power,0434646023 gimme a call sometime and we shall organise something, preferably sometime before the holidays end so like in the next week maybe. I dunno, but yeah its been ages since ive seen you around, become a recluse have we?,Hi Shirin! Yeah pretty crazy last couple of years. What are you doing with yourself nowadays? Fam is good Francis is nearly 2 and ent<Name>g the terrible twos.,Oh yeah, been playing in bands for a couple of years but got a solo electronic project at the moment. Also doing a sound art course at RMIT and building guitR pedals/synths for friends. Good to hear ya doing some open mics,,Hey man, Woah jeez what a beast! Let me do some research and get back to you as I'm comparing what I need with what's available atm. Definitely interested though!,Hey I ended up picking up an mpc so go ahead!,Thanks, good luck selling!,Yeah man, for sure! Super cool to get onto it. Whereabouts did ya say? Bar Open yeah?,Hell yeah! Always good to play with like-minded gents.,Hey Georgie, had a look at the event page for the album launch, do ya reckon ya might be able to change the name to just "Liam Power" for me solo stuff?,Thanks bruv,Should be a blaster matey, see ya round 8ish then,yah yah yah man! You guys killed it! You can do bank transfer if thats easier, otherwise im in coburg all week, pretty free cept moving thurs friday.,Cool man, its Name: Liam PowerInstitution: BankwestBSB: 303-092 Account #: 5893348,Ooh yeah baby, got the transfer. Thanks man. Also hit me up if ya need someone to play a show with ye again.,Hey Matey, hows it gahn? We were thinking of doing a little shindig for our EP launch in November and I was wonderingwhether General Men might want to play?,Thanks bruvva, that Dong <name> on the mixing desk, turned out to be a bit of a sharp one. Rides might be good, just gotta make sure it all kinda flows, ya know? I'll get back to yaz with dates/venue etc. closer to the date.,Fuck yes! Dirtier is always better when it comes to us. We'll totes keep rides in mind. Shame about GM though coz we've played heaps of gigs with you guys and were like "we should play with em for the launch". But still gotta book a venue and whatnot anyway, so just gauging possible interest and calling in favours.,Hey do you know the guys from overtime? Reckon they would go well, Savage nobles, overtime, rides and one other and we'd be cooking with gas.,Awesome, thanks bruv, thought they would be awesome to play. Gunna get onto Al and Rich at the Tote and see what I can rustle up for November.,Do ya reckon Rides could play the 26th at the Tote? Its a thursday night,Awesome, thanks matey,Hey George, got the workheet for the show on the 26th.    bringing guitar amp and bass amp, snare and cymbals. Yr welcome to plug into our shit if ya dont feel like lugging it around on the night. Probs gunna use the tote backline kit, but if your drummer wants to bring theirs they can go mad. Gunna be a fucking toaster,,Disregard that facebook event madness. Stupid compulsive pasting,HEY georgie, just checking everything's running smooth with you guys for thursday night? Gunna be a killer show I reckon.,Hey bud, turns out the numbers sucked for tonight so we ended up having to cover the difference to pay the sound guy. So sorry no door money :( good to see ya though and thanks heaps for playing.,Hey Liam, pretty sure we met the other night at the hoot. While piecing together shards of memory I realised that I'm in <name>, and Al said something about me contacting you about any door cash we have coming to us.,Ken oath, what a night eh? We're always looking for more shows if ya hear of something too. Name: Liam PowerInstitution: BankwestBSB: 303092Acc #: 5893348,Heyo, nah I don't think I'll make it. Got my kid with me all day today. Hope you guys have a balst and half though.,totally man, keen for a catch up,Hey Peter,thanks bud, like a fool I booked a gig for the night of the 19th, but we are going to be there for the ceremony and as long as we can for the reception. Gig starts at 9:30 so will still be there for the good bits. Congrats to you guys and hope you are doing well.,I think we'll be fine, got plenty of offers for bikes from people. Thanks for the offer though!,Me too bud. I'll maim them myself. ;),She can't have chilli or mangoes. We will probably have to split round 8?,Sorry about double booking, bummed we wont be able to hang longer. Having <Name> around kinda restricts our timeline a bit as well.,Hey mate, that sounds pretty good! What did you have in mind? Adding sound to existing artworks or creating sound in general? Or just an overview of how sound can be used as a medium and some practical examples?,I could do that!,That's cool, I'll have a think about some approaches which might be good,Awesome! Yeah I've got a few ideas bubbling away already!,Wow great, thanks for getting back to me, I have a few ideas which I can forward to you a bit later on today? A field recording class would possibly be quite good, as in they bring a work already created and have to make a sonic response using found sound or something.,When does the next term start?,okay cool, I'm in class but will email you some ideas this afternoon!,Okay cool, I have emailed you an idea for a workshop that I think might be good as a starting point for people trying to get their head around intergrating sound into their work.,Cool, talk soon then!,Hey man, hows it going? Congrats to you guys for the new BB!Was wonderingif I could put you as a reference for that workshop I did at Arts Projects? I'm looking for a job over the summer and wanted to go for some sound/teaching jobs and would be super awesome if I could show some relevant experience. Cheers!,Awesome! Thanks so much! I know it was only one time but sometimes we gotta be a little flexible with the truth haha. Will let you know if you should be expecting a call too. Also if you hear of anyone needing help with setting up/envisaging anything sound related send them my way!,Hey Helen, you were thinking about coming round today to visit right? Well if you are free a bit earlier My sister is moving and needs manpower, I was going to help her move the fridge and big stuff but turns out that Mum is sick so can't babysit. I'm sure it'd only be for a couple of hours, but I need someone to come and watch <Name> while I go over there and help. No big deal if ya can't make it, otherwise ill see ya later on. Thanks matey!,Hm. Early would be better? Pretty sure they want to move most of the stuff at like 11, 11:30ish. Sorry if I'm screwing with your saturday! was a bit of a last minute dropout from Mum. So if ya get here around 10ish or whenever you can I can get <Name>to pick me up then. I'll just call her and ask,PS <Name> will probably have a nap from like 12-2 so bring some work if you want?,Dude, thank you so much!!!! You just saved my sister from a major stress ulcer.We're at 7 Le Cateau st. Pascoe vale South, (Come up Citylink if ya got the tag maybe).Don't stress about rushing over here or anything, just lemme know when you are on your way and I will get <Name>to come pick me up.<Name> will be home later on, like 4:30, but you'll probably be off by then eh?,Sorry about that. I wouldn't do this to you if I had one other stable person in my life. <Name>'s gnna be home monday tuesday wednesday if that helps? Welcome to pop by after work if you ain't too knackered. I'll grind some beans ready for ya when you get here.,PS I owe ya one.,yes yes yes yes,always,hence "I'll grind some beans ready for ya when you get here.",Oh shit. Don't worry about it then! Sorry!,I didn't realise you we're only just back,Alright then champ. See ya when ya get here.,Hell yes!,looks awesomes,Ya an preorder the tape, assuming ya got a tape player, or ya can download it from savagenobles.bandcamp.com,Also feel free to stir up demand anyway ya can,Hey helen, how ya doing? Would you be into watching <Name> for a bit tomorrow. I'm really sick and need bedrest and <Name>s at work. No big deal if ya can't.,Yup! Hes doing great as well, i caught it a couple of days after him so he's been in a stellar mood.,Thanks heaps by the way, you're the best.,Bonzo, no extreme rush, it is a Sunday. I'll see what i can do with the seat. My strength has been weakened by fever and i know have the physical and cognitive abilities of a 4 year old.,Upgraded to foreman. Nice.,So <Name> will probably go down for his morning nap around 10-10:30 and will wake up around 12ish. Ill let ya know but 12:30-1 might be a good time to pop round,Sounds good! Will do some lighting tests and jazz tonight. Will be able to get it down to 10mb probs.,Oh yeah totally! Come by!,what's your email? Boiled it down to two, do you want me to choose or should you?,   should work? Google Drive.,Ok, I'll send you two. It was take 2 and take 3 which turned out the best, take two ya stumble over "economics" but you nail the rest of it and have more enthusiasm cause you arent full of pizza. Take 3 you sound more professional but at the sacrifice of a "personal appeal" aspect, but you nailed the ending with the pitch. Sorry for detailed analysis, just watched them like 10 times while editing,<Name> liked take 2 by the way,Cool, no worries mate. Thanks for the pizza & good luck with it.,Hey Helen, hows it going? Ya end up getting that submission in? I was just wonderingif ya had some time to take lil bb <Name> out on the weekend? I got heaps of assessment due and <Name>'s got this new job she has to work on so will be outta the house all weekend.Cheers Liam,No worries talk later cheers,Hey Helen sorry we ran off <Name> was getting a bit tired, you can just hang on to that shoebox and porta cot til next time if thats easier for you. Don't think we'll be needing either for a while.,haha,take him to the zoo if you want!,Sneaky! Cute!,Wha?,Nah we were up at 8:30. Did you knock? Sorry! <Name>the know what we could have been doing?,Craziness! That sucks. Sorry!,Yup, 26 years young. Hard to type this with my shaking frail old man hands,I listen to vinyl albums on a hifi with separate amp and speakers. That's old man. No wait that's young man. Pretensions transcend age,Hey we're up. I think <Name>'s phone is off. I think he'd love that!,Oh apparently <Name> want's to hang with <Name> today coz she hasn't seen him all week,Hey, how much were you thinking for the MOTU? Is my dream card but might be a little OP for my setup ATM.,Hey sorry, I found a 6i6 yesterday! Good luck selling,Hi <name>, didn't see you in the SSCC meeting the other day. We ended up talking about the lack of studio spaces for sound students and the school of art has offered us a space in 4.2.09 for a multipurpose room. Having trouble getting a hold of students to talk about whether they are into the idea and what they would want from a space so let me know!,Hi <name>, no worries! Yeah I remember talking about this with the School of Art last year too. I think we got lucky as they are changing the program structure next year so we could grapple with them a bit more about what we need. <name> Summers was really helpful as well in the whole process. The wheels of bureaucracy certainly turn slowly enough har har. If you send me your email I'll forward the conversation I've been having with the School of Art about access and amenities and stuff. From what I can gather they are repainting/remodeling the area but it will be available for use after the mid-semester break. We should have 24/7 access and there are two iMacs in there with iLoks and all the audio software we need etc.,Haha, fair enough man. Plenty more to come. Ended up being a pretty good night, duuno whether I'll organize a gig for a while though, was running around chasing up mic cables and jazz for people all night so wouldnt have been very sociable. By the way I was into that cage aleatoric thing you did yesterday, was a nice break from all the slow fade ins and sine tones,Super into it. Maybe we can get some gear into immersive and see what we come up with?,Shityeah, what mods on the 101?,Fuckyes. FM sounds are my fave. Patch them into my little modular thing all the time,Hey man, how ya doing? I'm Getting into trying to do some data bending sonification type stuff, been opening random non audio files in audacity using the import raw option for sources or noise etc. I thought you might know a thing or two about that stuff, pretty sure you were telling me about that infecting a file with a virus and using it as an audio source or something? Anyway do ya have any tip and tricks for getting started with that kind of? Been getting some really interesting sounds but need some direction.,*That kind of thing,Like open wavs changed to raw in Photoshop or something?,Okay cool I'm gunna try it pretty sure it's a rabbit hole he he,Fuck that looks good but the wife is working tonight so I'm home with me kid \ude1e we should have a jam or something soon though? You on campus much this semester? Haven't seen ya round,I'm in Every day cept Tuesday, I usually book immersive Monday arvo  and Wednesday morning?,Been mast<Name>g the modular in immersive this sem,I can do that! I'll book it! What to bring?,Hell yes! I think <Name> has this Wednesday morning booked in immersive. is the pod booked?,Just booked the pod,Hey man, good hustles yesterday, you still keen to send through that max patch you were showing me? looks really useful!,Sweet thanks man,Ooh yeah, with an Lfo or automation or something. Did you make it from scratch or is it based off a tutorial or something?,Ps if ya need any synth stuff soldered/mods I owe ya one,haha, no idea, i got some arduino and a little max but thats it,haha, get soem books and dive in,You can't use processing? That might be easier,thats some sweet gating,wow this device rules,FYI it came up with white text on white background for the numboxes in max 7 for some reason,oh cool so its just sfplay,good call, although you put put a hpf in max pretty easily to remove dc as well,Not too bad, getting started on all the projects. I could possibly have something by then.,Actually writing a proposal for byrons class so might see whats up,Oh no I meant that I am writing a mock proposal for byrons class with no real outcome which coincidentally is due like 3 days before the Kings proposals are due,so super interested,yeah man, what days you round campus?,I'm round monday and thursday afternoons at the moment, monday after 1:30, thursday after 12:30. Could pop in wednesday possibly,perfect,I finish class in building 9 at 12:30,you still go tmy digits?,old pod room,classic times,cool man see ya then!,PS is this a thing?\   "coincidentally info session is tomorrow at 12,{artially fund an exhibition for two RMIT students/alumni, pretty legit. Seems liek what it was made for. Yeah I'll try and get away from class early,Could possibly get some other students involved if we got funding too. Anyway all talking points for tomorrow,   fark this dude is selling ultrasonic speaker kits!,Cool I'm at this creative funding info session in building 10,Scoping,No stress I'm just gunna hang in 646,I'm outside at Mr Tulk having a leisurely brew.,check out antenna loading coils. These guys are using pretty massive inductors and I'm sure there would be some DIY resources out there \   "   "first site is bogus,seems liek we could use existing antenna technology,PS turns out people call these electromagnetic sniffers as opposed to microphones,Also look up Van Eck phreaking. People were picking up electromagnetic signals from CRTs and decoding them!,Read all this when you are done: I'm doing some testing. That Inductor I bought today has a pretty good signal range. I am gunna try and build a preamplifier for it I think. The 60hz hum sounds really interesting when mixed with another and delayed by a few ms, all sorts of really weird phasing occurs which I think will defray any noise 'problems' and actually form a nice ambient drone to bring people in,For loops rule,een experimenting a bit, and it look slike a crcuit bent AM radio with a custom antenna would do what we wanted to do. If you get a radio and tune it to the lowest frequency you can, then itll pick up interference with surprising sensitivity,passive hand wound coils could be used to supplement bass frequencies,Yup,We probably only need like 10m 1.8mm diameter for a prototype/small scale thing. Have a few places on computer but not at home atm. Will message em through later,Possibly bunnings?,Nah but thicker is better,Yeah which is unenamelled,Which might not matter too much for prototyping,Just make sure it doesn't short out against itself,Should be fine I thinj,Yeah 100g roll is 10m anyway,Yeah like 15 bucks isn't that much. Maybe get two and I'll pay ya back,Twelve bucks rather,Plus I'm leaning toward an antenna like design rather than a post with a coil on top.,Will be more sensitive over a greater area,Nah, I'd have to be fairly manic to snap that together,Google images,Antenna design is compelling,Ulf bands are 30hz-30khz,which means that Ulf antenna designs will potentially be perfect for picking up electromagnetic signals I'm the audible range,Doing Heaps of research this week coz I've got like three assignments due next week/week after,People are using slinkys as antennas? Stretched from roof to floor might be interesting a esthetically,Why not,   "Ham universe is a great band name btw,Ham ecks Vlf phreak out,Ha,Would work well as cassette tape even,nice one! yeah, little bit of a throwback. I love all that early electronics stuff. It was all trial and error and experiementation,totally, cause the world is stagnating and fragmenting people are dying for a common force,but in 1860 they were looking toward the future,the future scares the shit out of most people now, so they look to the past,and everything was sepia toned,everybody had giant mustaches,and the women all wore bonnets and 100 petticoats,is was only hundreds of colots,256,if you look closesly its dot matrix halftone,Hehe,Just putting this here so I don't forget. Inductor coils have a magnetic resonance frequency which can be tuned to a room either by changing the number or turns in the coil or by utilizing a mechanical design. One idea uses the axes of two separate coils connected in series, one inside the other. When the inner coil is rotated the inductance changes based upon the axes relation to each other. So we can build two coils and tune them so that they will be sensitive to the frequencues out out by iPhones and consumer electronics and jazz,Sci fi,Yeah, I think we won't need as much scale just to test stuff out,I'm leaning more towards lots of small ones anyway, would be easier to cover an area,So what should we do Thursday? Kings proposal submission is due Sunday evening,Yeah I'll see what I can pick up. Honestly don't think we will need more than that. I'll bring my soundcard and multimeter. We can probably scavenge some kind of wood for a frame from sculpture studios. I'll bring soundcard and some quarter inch plugs so we can plug stuff in.,I'll bring some I've already made for baseline as well.,hey what time do ya wanna do stuff today? I'm free after 1:30,Hey man I'm just on Bourke st, where ya wanna meet?,Yeah me too, wrestling with a toddler all night but will definitely have some time to do some testing tonight,So I've been experimenting with active electronics on the coil,Have had some really interesting results. Different combinations of the capacitors and opamps and I am picking up radio winners whose volume is affected by the electromagnetic presence in the room,*signals,Fuck yeah got a sort of resonant high pass /high gain amplifier going and it picks up phone signals pretty darn well. Looks like we will have to go with lots of little coils I think rather than one large one. Will send recordings when I have some time,Yeah, the smaller one with magnets worked damn well.circuit takes up one opamo and couple of components so I could probably bang out a 4 input version pretty easily.,Possibly. I dunno how much range we can possibly get, so it might be more of a human influenced noise install. Definitely more sensitive than before though,Probably not stable enough for a full proposal right now woops. Kind of hit a wall with research. Got some cool circuits and sounds and stuff but not really increasing sensitivity in any way. Think it might be back to the drawing board on this one for now.,Yeah sorry man, might need to synthesize a new idea if we wanna get something together soon,I'm into it! Let's put out some feelers,My thoughts too,Need diversity,I'll ask around,I'm doing some work with sound and video degradation right now, which might fit.,PS most of the people I will ask are girls cause the some of the dudes in my year can be fairly unmotivated,Cool, am I pitching as digital degradation specifically or degradation and decay as a broader theme?,Haha,Okay, so not specific on man made degradation or erosion,Cool, I'll have a think and pitch to some peeps. Still got til the 20th April for link arts funding applications too.,If we need it, otherwise with a group exhibition any gallery fees are fairly redundant anyway,What are you thinking of doing for it?,Cool, like a generation loss type scenario,Im still changing gears from electromagnetic fields, but I'll have something definite soon,Hey man, how ya doing? Sorry I've been outta touch for a while, just had to put my head down with uni and had a little bit of creative block/crisis which I'm just now crawling out of. Anyways, I got a video piece i did for class which with an edit would fit pretty well with digital degradation theme, maybe we should look into some mid-year gallery rounds? Gotta network some other peeps to get on it.,Cool. Let's get the ball rolling during the mid semester break possibly,Cool man. Will check it out when I'm on comp. PS my friend <name> is interested in pitching for degradation show. How may people do ya reckon we Need? Spose it would depend on venue.,Open call out on sound art students Facebook group?,Would be good to get non white male perspective,Ingrid! But she dropped out and lost touch. I could Contact her though.,Yeah I'll msg her now.,Cool, meeting up on Thurs to see if she is into it/has any ideas regarding. We keeping it digital degradation or just degradation as a theme?,Yeah I thought so too,Yeah we had a class there last year for spatial practice. Such a cool space. Definitely yelling for some sort of performance art/installation type thing,Got a few people that might be interested still exploring options though. What format would your work take do ya think? If it could work in a cinema performance space long play might be a good idea,Fair call. Hmu after you're done and we'll get coffee,Hey bud how ya doing? Got 3 other artists interested in a show round degradation as a theme, thinking more of a video/performance/sound night at long play or loop at the moment mid November? Let me know what ya think/if ya free for a coffee at any point.,Possible. When do ya leave?,Cool ill pencil it in for before then. That's cool so far we have 2 video works and 1 sound work so performance would probably slot in perfectly. I'll let ya know when I have more info!,End of October then probably,Nah like a film/performance night in a cinema pace which also has PA equipment,Space,Hey mang. So I ended up buying a MPC1000 cheap as shit coz it needed a few switches replaced \ude06. You have one yeah?,Yeah, its got JJOS free on it. Gunna have to save up for some new -pads before JJOS though I think. Have you changed the pads in yours?,MPCstuff? Which type did ya get?,Yeah Its pretty wrecked pad wise. Good thing is I got it cheap so can afford to upgrade slowly. Gunna give it a good clean out and see where I stand. Real good pickup though! Can't wait to play out with it.,Whats the diff with the fat pads and originals? They stick up higher?,JJOS looks frigging awesomely deep too. Can pretty much use MPC as a looper as well? Like run midi out into synths, then audio back into MPC? Or is that a pipe dream?,Picking it up tomorrow so gunna check if I can clean the pads a bit. Just doing the whole pre-gear research exceitment nerd thing.,Yeah looking forward to having computerless as an option for live shows and stuff. Some dudes on the MPC Forums founds some guerilla fix for flaky 1000 pads so I might try that out before shelling out for new ones from the US. How'd you get started with yours? Youtube tutorials and stuff?,Thanks man!Looks really deep especially in JJOS so I know from past experience that might mean me fiddling with menus resampling and mangling as opposed to making tracks :) Once I get the hang of it we should have an MPC Jam. Do people have MPC jams?,Haha cool, hows your honours stuff going? Got ya nose to the grindstone?,Key yer chin up bud. Wanna quiz you on the whole experience when you're done!,Cool, got my hands on the MPC now. Switching out the tacts tonight. Also found some guy selling his pads cheap cause he upgraded so have spares coz a few are double hitting. Using it with external midi pad for now. Fucking amazing! So tight and super nice sound. Have you got a hard drive in yours? Not sure if the CF drive is working properly in mine.,I think you might be able to out an ssd in? Or you can put in a large compact flash with a ide adapter or something. Just got in there and cleaned the pads and replaced a few tactile switches and she's running sweet! What a score for 200 bucks!,this looks promising    "Man I got nanoloop on my phone coz of your instagram. Super fun for train jams,PS do you need anything from MPCstuff? Gotta get a HDM10 and its 20 bucks shipping for a 40 dollar part,All good, got a few peeps on MGN interested in splitting shipping,Yo, where'd you get your MPC hard drive from?,ooh nice,I've been calling up old computer stores and the'yre like "IDE drives? we havent had those in 10 years ya turkey bastard",I've been getting real deep into JJOS btw. Don't have a hard drive yet so can't save anything but just been trying out all the features. My computer just sits on the frigging desk now when I'm making tunes like "Please I have internet and many tasty plugins",Man I'm so down.,Csound though?,haha,Yeah I hear ya. I love making art but my ass is itching to just jam and fuck around without having a deadline,Haha, looks like you've been busy,How the fuck did you learn all that?,coffee and online tutorials?,haha you're a monster,reality is too slow,later man. Catch up on the hols! not long now,hang in there bud,will do,Hey <Name> Blue. You should come round and do some coding and shit whever you're free this week,Yeah dik, well just make shit go blinky blink and bloody bloody bloop.  I got some light sensors and joysticks and buttons and shit which we can use to control processes. Just embed some light sensors in something and make it control something else. Easy as pie. I got Friday free, ol <Name> is in daycare.,Nannyboy,Nah I want drunk commit,Steady on then! Thats a right that is earned by toil. You're at secod cousin status til ya pull it together.,I knew when I brought him into this world (single handedly) he would have to deal with people like you, he's prepared. I dunno what's out the window?,Judge from who is on the tram,Don't trust that guy, his hair didn't.,It Fled the scene during his first psychotic episode.,I wonder if you could tear your hair out so vigorously it never grew back again.,Testing on you,Pretend it was an accident. Pretty sure skin grafts are free under Medicare if you bleed enough.,So that's where you guys moved to. Looks fancy,Sikasmate. Try not to choke on vom or swallow ye tung.,The many faces of <Name> blue.,Sounds good Johnson, I'll talk to ya then.,Have a nice day at werk dearie,Hm, memories of those days are decidedly murky. What was the model number again?,I think I found out it has different tuning modes to emulate different instruments so it might have defaulted to a stretched tuning or twelve tone or something. I'll have a look for the manual when I get home,No worries hope you guys are doing well x,Aww sik,Might be a good lead,Also this","" "I know,Whoops accidental thumb,Repressed thumb,Someone shot off an archdukes thumb,,Hey <Name>, I I probably could fix them but dunno if I can do it that quick as I got a fair amount of jazz happening at the moment. Wouldn't want to get them off you and then not have them ready in time. Might be better to go with someone with experience with these particular synthetic. I can ask around if you want?,Are you in the Music Gear Nuts group of Facebook? I see people advertising repairs there all the time,Yeah cool, what's his Facebook? Ill add him. It depends what's wrong with the pedals and if ill needa order parts etc..,Haha cute! Don't spend too much on him, but it should be ok, defs need outdoor stuff. Is it a trampoline thing?,Yeah he'd love that!"